bulbasaur	A strange seed was planted on its back at birth. The plant sprouts and grows with this POKéMON.
ivysaur	When the bulb on its back grows large, it appears to lose the ability to stand on its hind legs.
venusaur	The plant blooms when it is absorbing solar energy. It stays on the move to seek sunlight.
charmander	Obviously prefers hot places. When it rains, steam is said to spout from the tip of its tail.
charmeleon	When it swings its burning tail, it elevates the temperature to unbearably high levels.
charizard	Spits fire that is hot enough to melt boulders. Known to cause forest fires unintentionally.
squirtle	After birth, its back swells and hardens into a shell. Powerfully sprays foam from its mouth.
wartortle	Often hides in water to stalk unwary prey. For swimming fast, it moves its ears to maintain balance.
blastoise	A brutal POKéMON with pressurized water jets on its shell. They are used for high speed tackles.
caterpie	Its short feet are tipped with suction pads that enable it to tirelessly climb slopes and walls.
metapod	This POKéMON is vulnerable to attack while its shell is soft, exposing its weak and tender body.
butterfree	In battle, it flaps its wings at high speed to release highly toxic dust into the air.
weedle	Often found in forests, eating leaves. It has a sharp venomous stinger on its head.
kakuna	Almost incapable of moving, this POKéMON can only harden its shell to protect itself from predators.
beedrill	It has three poisonous stingers on its forelegs and its tail. They are used to jab its enemy repeatedly.
pidgey	A common sight in forests and woods. It flaps its wings at ground level to kick up blinding sand.
pidgeotto	Very protective of its sprawling territorial area, this POKéMON will fiercely peck at any intruder.
pidgeot	When hunting, it skims the surface of water at high speed to pick off unwary prey such as MAGIKARP.
rattata	Bites anything when it attacks. Small and very quick, it is a common sight in many places.
raticate	It uses its whis­ kers to maintain its balance. It apparently slows down if they are cut off.
spearow	It flaps its small wings busily to fly. Using its beak, it searches in grass for prey.
fearow	With its huge and magnificent wings, it can keep aloft without ever having to land for rest.
ekans	Moves silently and stealthily. Eats the eggs of birds, such as PIDGEY and SPEAROW, whole.
arbok	It is rumored that the ferocious warning markings on its belly differ from area to area.
pikachu	When several of these POKéMON gather, their electricity could build and cause lightning storms.
raichu	Its long tail serves as a ground to protect itself from its own high-voltage power.
sandshrew	Burrows deep underground in arid locations far from water. It only emerges to hunt for food.
sandslash	Curls up into a spiny ball when threatened. It can roll while curled up to attack or escape.
nidoran-f	Although small, its venomous barbs render this POKéMON dangerous. The female has smaller horns.
nidorina	The female's horn develops slowly. Prefers physical attacks such as clawing and biting.
nidoqueen	Its hard scales provide strong protection. It uses its hefty bulk to execute powerful moves.
nidoran-m	Stiffens its ears to sense danger. The larger its horns, the more powerful its secreted venom.
nidorino	An aggressive POKéMON that is quick to attack. The horn on its head secretes a powerful venom.
nidoking	It uses its powerful tail in battle to smash, constrict, then break the prey's bones.
clefairy	Its magical and cute appeal has many admirers. It is rare and found only in certain areas.
clefable	A timid fairy POKéMON that is rarely seen. It will run and hide the moment it senses people.
vulpix	At the time of birth, it has just one tail. The tail splits from its tip as it grows older.
ninetales	Very smart and very vengeful. Grabbing one of its many tails could result in a 1000-year curse.
jigglypuff	When its huge eyes light up, it sings a mysteriously soothing melody that lulls its enemies to sleep.
wigglytuff	The body is soft and rubbery. When angered, it will suck in air and inflate itself to an enormous size.
zubat	Forms colonies in perpetually dark places. Uses ultrasonic waves to identify and approach targets.
golbat	Once it strikes, it will not stop draining energy from the victim even if it gets too heavy to fly.
oddish	During the day, it keeps its face buried in the ground. At night, it wanders around sowing its seeds.
gloom	The fluid that oozes from its mouth isn't drool. It is a nectar that is used to attract prey.
vileplume	It has the world’s largest petals. With every step, the petals shake out heavy clouds of toxic pollen.
paras	Burrows to suck tree roots. The mushrooms on its back grow by draw­ ing nutrients from the bug host.
parasect	A host-parasite pair in which the parasite mushroom has taken over the host bug. Prefers damp places.
venonat	Lives in the shadows of tall trees where it eats insects. It is attracted by light at night.
venomoth	The dustlike scales covering its wings are color-coded to indicate the kinds of poison it has.
diglett	Lives about one yard underground where it feeds on plant roots. It sometimes appears above ground.
dugtrio	A team of DIGLETT triplets. It triggers huge earthquakes by burrowing 60 miles underground.
meowth	It washes its face regularly to keep the coin on its forehead spotless. It doesn’t get along with Galarian Meowth.
persian	Although its fur has many admirers, it is tough to raise as a pet because of its fickle meanness.
psyduck	While lulling its enemies with its vacant look, this wily POKéMON will use psychokinetic powers.
golduck	Often seen swim­ ming elegantly by lake shores. It is often mistaken for the Japanese monster, Kappa.
mankey	Extremely quick to anger. It could be docile one moment then thrashing away the next instant.
primeape	Always furious and tenacious to boot. It will not abandon chasing its quarry until it is caught.
growlithe	Very protective of its territory. It will bark and bite to repel intruders from its space.
arcanine	A POKéMON that has been admired since the past for its beauty. It runs agilely as if on wings.
poliwag	Its newly grown legs prevent it from running. It appears to prefer swimming than trying to stand.
poliwhirl	Capable of living in or out of water. When out of water, it sweats to keep its body slimy.
poliwrath	An adept swimmer at both the front crawl and breast stroke. Easily overtakes the best human swimmers.
abra	Using its ability to read minds, it will identify impending danger and TELEPORT to safety.
kadabra	It emits special alpha waves from its body that induce headaches just by being close by.
alakazam	Its brain can out­ perform a super­ computer. Its intelligence quotient is said to be 5,000.
machop	Loves to build its muscles. It trains in all styles of martial arts to become even stronger.
machoke	Its muscular body is so powerful, it must wear a power save belt to be able to regulate its motions.
machamp	Using its heavy muscles, it throws powerful punches that can send the victim clear over the horizon.
bellsprout	A carnivorous POKéMON that traps and eats bugs. It uses its root feet to soak up needed moisture.
weepinbell	It spits out POISONPOWDER to immobilize the enemy and then finishes it with a spray of ACID.
victreebel	Said to live in huge colonies deep in jungles, although no one has ever returned from there.
tentacool	Drifts in shallow seas. Anglers who hook them by accident are often punished by its stinging acid.
tentacruel	The tentacles are normally kept short. On hunts, they are extended to ensnare and immobilize prey.
geodude	Found in fields and mountains. Mistaking them for boulders, people often step or trip on them.
graveler	Rolls down slopes to move. It rolls over any obstacle without slowing or changing its direction.
golem	Its boulder-like body is extremely hard. It can easily withstand dynamite blasts without damage.
ponyta	Its hooves are 10 times harder than diamonds. It can trample anything completely flat in little time.
rapidash	Very competitive, this POKéMON will chase anything that moves fast in the hopes of racing it.
slowpoke	Incredibly slow and dopey. It takes 5 seconds for it to feel pain when under attack.
slowbro	The SHELLDER that is latched onto SLOWPOKE's tail is said to feed on the host's left over scraps.
magnemite	Uses anti-gravity to stay suspended. Appears without warning and uses THUNDER WAVE and similar moves.
magneton	Formed by several MAGNEMITEs linked together. They frequently appear when sunspots flare up.
farfetchd	The sprig of green onions it holds is its weapon. It is used much like a metal sword.
doduo	A bird that makes up for its poor flying with its fast foot speed. Leaves giant footprints.
dodrio	Uses its three brains to execute complex plans. While two heads sleep, one head stays awake.
seel	The protruding horn on its head is very hard. It is used for bashing through thick ice.
dewgong	Stores thermal energy in its body. Swims at a steady 8 knots even in intensely cold waters.
grimer	Appears in filthy areas. Thrives by sucking up polluted sludge that is pumped out of factories.
muk	Thickly covered with a filthy, vile sludge. It is so toxic, even its footprints contain poison.
shellder	Its hard shell repels any kind of attack. It is vulnerable only when its shell is open.
cloyster	When attacked, it launches its horns in quick volleys. Its innards have never been seen.
gastly	Almost invisible, this gaseous POKéMON cloaks the target and puts it to sleep without notice.
haunter	Because of its ability to slip through block walls, it is said to be from an­ other dimension.
gengar	Under a full moon, this POKéMON likes to mimic the shadows of people and laugh at their fright.
onix	As it grows, the stone portions of its body harden to become similar to a diamond, but colored black.
drowzee	Puts enemies to sleep then eats their dreams. Occasionally gets sick from eating bad dreams.
hypno	When it locks eyes with an enemy, it will use a mix of PSI moves such as HYPNOSIS and CONFUSION.
krabby	Its pincers are not only powerful weapons, they are used for balance when walking sideways.
kingler	The large pincer has 10000 hp of crushing power. However, its huge size makes it unwieldy to use.
voltorb	Usually found in power plants. Easily mistaken for a POKé BALL, they have zapped many people.
electrode	It stores electric energy under very high pressure. It often explodes with little or no provocation.
exeggcute	Often mistaken for eggs. When disturbed, they quickly gather and attack in swarms.
exeggutor	Legend has it that on rare occasions, one of its heads will drop off and continue on as an EXEGGCUTE.
cubone	Because it never removes its skull helmet, no one has ever seen this POKéMON's real face.
marowak	The bone it holds is its key weapon. It throws the bone skillfully like a boomerang to KO targets.
hitmonlee	When in a hurry, its legs lengthen progressively. It runs smoothly with extra long, loping strides.
hitmonchan	While apparently doing nothing, it fires punches in lightning fast volleys that are impossible to see.
lickitung	Its tongue can be extended like a chameleon's. It leaves a tingling sensation when it licks enemies.
koffing	Because it stores several kinds of toxic gases in its body, it is prone to exploding without warning.
weezing	Where two kinds of poison gases meet, 2 KOFFINGs can fuse into a WEEZING over many years.
rhyhorn	A POKéMON with a one-track mind. Once it charges,  it won't stop running until it falls asleep.
rhydon	Protected by an armor-like hide, it is capable of living in molten lava of 3,600 degrees.
chansey	A rare and elusive POKéMON that is said to bring happiness to those who manage to get it.
tangela	The whole body is swathed with wide vines that are similar to sea­ weed. Its vines shake as it walks.
kangaskhan	The infant rarely ventures out of its mother's protective pouch until it is 3 years old.
horsea	Known to shoot down flying bugs with precision blasts of ink from the surface of the water.
seadra	Capable of swim­ ming backwards by rapidly flapping its wing-like pectoral fins and stout tail.
goldeen	Its tail fin billows like an elegant ballroom dress, giving it the nickname of the Water Queen.
seaking	In the autumn spawning season, they can be seen swimming powerfully up rivers and creeks.
staryu	If its body is torn, it can grow back if the red core remains. The core flashes at midnight.
starmie	Its central core glows with the seven colors of the rainbow. Some people value the core as a gem.
mr-mime	If interrupted while it is miming, it will slap around the offender with its broad hands.
scyther	With ninja-like agility and speed, it can create the illusion that there is more than one.
jynx	It seductively wiggles its hips as it walks. It can cause people to dance in unison with it.
electabuzz	Normally found near power plants, they can wander away and cause major blackouts in cities.
magmar	Its body always burns with an orange glow that enables it to hide perfectly among flames.
pinsir	If it fails to crush the victim in its pincers, it will swing it around and toss it hard.
tauros	When it targets an enemy, it charges furiously while whipping its body with its long tails.
magikarp	In the distant past, it was somewhat stronger than the horribly weak descendants that exist today.
gyarados	Once it begins to rampage, a GYARADOS will burn everything down, even in a harsh storm.
lapras	A POKéMON that has been over­ hunted almost to extinction. It can ferry people across the water.
ditto	Capable of copying an enemy's genetic code to instantly transform itself into a duplicate of the enemy.
eevee	Its genetic code is irregular. It may mutate if it is exposed to radiation from element STONEs.
vaporeon	Lives close to water. Its long tail is ridged with a fin which is often mistaken for a mermaid's.
jolteon	It accumulates negative ions in the atmosphere to blast out 10000- volt lightning bolts.
flareon	When storing thermal energy in its body, its temperature could soar to over 1600 degrees.
porygon	A POKéMON that consists entirely of programming code. Capable of moving freely in cyberspace.
omanyte	Although long extinct, in rare cases, it can be genetically resurrected from fossils.
omastar	A prehistoric POKéMON that died out when its heavy shell made it impossible to catch prey.
kabuto	A POKéMON that was resurrected from a fossil found in what was once the ocean floor eons ago.
kabutops	Its sleek shape is perfect for swim­ ming. It slashes prey with its claws and drains the body fluids.
aerodactyl	A Pokémon that roamed the skies in the dinosaur era. Its teeth are like saw blades.
snorlax	Very lazy. Just eats and sleeps. As its rotund bulk builds, it becomes steadily more slothful.
articuno	A legendary bird POKéMON that is said to appear to doomed people who are lost in icy mountains.
zapdos	A legendary bird POKéMON that is said to appear from clouds while dropping enormous lightning bolts.
moltres	Known as the legendary bird of fire. Every flap of its wings creates a dazzling flash of flames.
dratini	Long considered a mythical POKéMON until recently when a small colony was found living underwater.
dragonair	A mystical POKéMON that exudes a gentle aura. Has the ability to change climate conditions.
dragonite	An extremely rarely seen marine POKéMON. Its intelligence is said to match that of humans.
mewtwo	It was created by a scientist after years of horrific gene splicing and DNA engineering experiments.
mew	So rare that it is still said to be a mirage by many experts. Only a few people have seen it worldwide.
chikorita	A sweet aroma gently wafts from the leaf on its head. It is docile and loves to soak up the sun's rays.
bayleef	The scent of spices comes from around its neck. Somehow, sniffing it makes you want to fight.
meganium	The aroma that rises from its petals contains a substance that calms aggressive feelings.
cyndaquil	It has a timid nature. If it is startled, the flames on its back burn more vigorously.
quilava	Be careful if it turns its back during battle. It means that it will attack with the fire on its back.
typhlosion	If its rage peaks, it becomes so hot that anything that touches it will instantly go up in flames.
totodile	Its well-developed jaws are powerful and capable of crushing anything. Even its trainer must be careful.
croconaw	If it loses a fang, a new one grows back in its place. There are always 48 fangs lining its mouth.
feraligatr	When it bites with its massive and powerful jaws, it shakes its head and savagely tears its victim up.
sentret	A very cautious POKéMON, it raises itself up using its tail to get a better view of its surroundings.
furret	It makes a nest to suit its long and skinny body. The nest is impossible for other POKéMON to enter.
hoothoot	It always stands on one foot. It changes feet so fast, the movement can rarely be seen.
noctowl	Its eyes are specially adapted. They concentrate even faint light and enable it to see in the dark.
ledyba	It is very timid. It will be afraid to move if it is alone. But it will be active if it is in a group.
ledian	When the stars flicker in the night sky, it flutters about, scattering a glowing powder.
spinarak	It lies still in the same pose for days in its web, waiting for its unsuspecting prey to wander close.
ariados	It spins string not only from its rear but also from its mouth. It is hard to tell which end is which.
crobat	It flies so si­ lently through the dark on its four wings that it may not be noticed even when nearby.
chinchou	Chinchou blink their shining antennae at one another to claim their respective turf.
lanturn	The light it emits is so bright that it can illuminate the sea's surface from a depth of over three miles.
pichu	It is not yet skilled at storing electricity. It may send out a jolt if amused or startled.
cleffa	Because of its unusual, star-like silhouette, people believe that it came here on a meteor.
igglybuff	It has a very soft body. If it starts to roll, it will bounce all over and be impossible to stop.
togepi	The shell seems to be filled with joy. It is said that it will share good luck when treated kindly.
togetic	They say that it will appear before kindhearted, car­ ing people and shower them with happiness.
natu	Because its wings aren't yet fully grown, it has to hop to get around. It is always star­ ing at something.
xatu	They say that it stays still and quiet because it is seeing both the past and future at the same time.
mareep	If static elec­ tricity builds in its body, its fleece doubles in volume. Touching it will shock you.
flaaffy	As a result of storing too much electricity, it developed patches where even downy wool won't grow.
ampharos	The tail's tip shines brightly and can be seen from far away. It acts as a beacon for lost people.
bellossom	Plentiful in the tropics. When it dances, its petals rub together and make a pleasant ringing sound.
marill	The tip of its tail, which con­ tains oil that is lighter than wa­ ter, lets it swim without drowning.
azumarill	It lives in water virtually all day long. Its body color and pattern act as camouflage that makes it tough for enemies to spot in water.
sudowoodo	Although it always pretends to be a tree, its composi­ tion appears to be closer to a rock than a plant.
politoed	If POLIWAG and POLIWHIRL hear its echoing cry, they respond by gather­ ing from far and wide.
hoppip	To keep from being blown away by the wind, they gather in clusters. They do enjoy gentle breezes, though.
skiploom	The bloom on top of its head opens and closes as the temperature fluc­ tuates up and down.
jumpluff	Once it catches the wind, it deft­ ly controls its cotton-puff spores to float, even around the world.
aipom	Its tail is so powerful that it can use it to grab a tree branch and hold itself up in the air.
sunkern	It may drop out of the sky suddenly. If attacked by a SPEAROW, it will violently shake its leaves.
sunflora	It converts sun­ light into energy. In the darkness after sunset, it closes its petals and becomes still.
yanma	If it flaps its wings really fast, it can generate shock waves that will shatter win­ dows in the area.
wooper	This POKéMON lives in cold water. It will leave the water to search for food when it gets cold outside.
quagsire	This carefree POKéMON has an easy-going nature. While swimming, it always bumps into boat hulls.
espeon	It uses the fine hair that covers its body to sense air currents and predict its ene­ my's actions.
umbreon	When agitated, this POKéMON pro­ tects itself by spraying poisonous sweat from its pores.
murkrow	Feared and loathed by many, it is believed to bring misfortune to all those who see it at night.
slowking	It has incredible intellect and in­ tuition. Whatever the situation, it remains calm and collected.
misdreavus	It likes playing mischievous tricks such as screaming and wailing to startle people at night.
unown	Their shapes look like hieroglyphs on ancient tab­ lets. It is said that the two are somehow related.
wobbuffet	It hates light and shock. If attack­ ed, it inflates its body to pump up its counter­ strike.
girafarig	Its tail has a small brain of its own. Beware! If you get close, it may react to your scent and bite.
pineco	It likes to make its shell thicker by adding layers of tree bark. The additional weight doesn't bother it.
forretress	Its entire body is shielded by a steel-hard shell. What lurks inside the armor is a total mystery.
dunsparce	When spotted, this POKéMON escapes backward by furi­ ously boring into the ground with its tail.
gligar	It flies straight at its target's face then clamps down on the star­ tled victim to inject poison.
steelix	It is thought its body transformed as a result of iron accumulating internally from swallowing soil.
snubbull	Although it looks frightening, it is actually kind and affectionate. It is very popular among women.
granbull	It is actually timid and easily spooked. If at­ tacked, it flails about to fend off its attacker.
qwilfish	To fire its poison spikes, it must inflate its body by drinking over 2.6 gallons of water all at once.
scizor	It has a steel-hard body. It intimidates foes by upraising its eye-patterned pincers.
shuckle	The BERRIES it stores in its vase-like shell decompose and become a gooey liquid.
heracross	It is usually docile, but if it is disturbed while sipping honey, it chases off the intruder with its horn.
sneasel	Its paws conceal sharp claws. If attacked, it sud­ denly extends the claws and startles its enemy.
teddiursa	If it finds honey, its crescent mark glows. It always licks its paws because they are soaked with honey.
ursaring	Although it is a good climber, it prefers to snap trees with its forelegs and eat fallen BERRIES.
slugma	It never sleeps. It has to keep moving because if it stopped, its magma body would cool and harden.
magcargo	The shell on its back is just skin that has cooled and hardened. It breaks easily with a slight touch.
swinub	It rubs its snout on the ground to find and dig up food. It sometimes discovers hot springs.
piloswine	Because the long hair all over its body obscures its sight, it just keeps charging repeatedly.
corsola	It continuously sheds and grows. The tip of its head is prized as a treasure for its beauty.
remoraid	It has superb ac­ curacy. The water it shoots out can strike even moving prey from more than 300 feet.
octillery	It traps enemies with its suction- cupped tentacles then smashes them with its rock-hard head.
delibird	It carries food all day long. There are tales about lost people who were saved by the food it had.
mantine	As it majestically swims, it doesn't care if REMORAID attach to it for scavenging its leftovers.
skarmory	Its sturdy wings look heavy, but they are actually hollow and light, allowing it to fly freely in the sky.
houndour	It uses different kinds of cries for communicating with others of its kind and for pursuing its prey.
houndoom	If you are burned by the flames it shoots from its mouth, the pain will never go away.
kingdra	It is said that it usually hides in underwater caves. It can create whirlpools by yawning.
phanpy	It swings its long snout around play­ fully, but because it is so strong, that can be dan­ gerous.
donphan	It has sharp, hard tusks and a rugged hide. Its TACKLE is strong enough to knock down a house.
porygon2	This upgraded version of PORYGON is designed for space exploration. It can't fly, though.
stantler	The curved antlers subtly change the flow of air to create a strange space where real­ ity is distorted.
smeargle	A special fluid oozes from the tip of its tail. It paints the fluid everywhere to mark its territory.
tyrogue	It is always bursting with en­ ergy. To make it­ self stronger, it keeps on fighting even if it loses.
hitmontop	If you become enchanted by its smooth, elegant, dance-like kicks, you may get drilled hard.
smoochum	Its lips are the most sensitive parts on its body. It always uses its lips first to examine things.
elekid	It rotates its arms to generate electricity, but it tires easily, so it charges up only a little bit.
magby	Each and every time it inhales and exhales, hot embers dribble out of its mouth and nostrils.
miltank	Its milk is packed with nutrition, making it the ultimate beverage for the sick or weary.
blissey	Anyone who takes even one bite of BLISSEY's egg be­ comes unfailingly caring and pleas­ ant to everyone.
raikou	The rain clouds it carries let it fire thunderbolts at will. They say that it descended with lightning.
entei	Volcanoes erupt when it barks. Un­ able to restrain its extreme power, it races headlong around the land.
suicune	It races around the world to purify fouled water. It dashes away with the north wind.
larvitar	It feeds on soil. After it has eaten a large mountain, it will fall asleep so it can grow.
pupitar	Its shell is as hard as sheet rock, and it is also very strong. Its THRASHING can topple a mountain.
tyranitar	Its body can't be harmed by any sort of attack, so it is very eager to make challenges against enemies.
lugia	It is said that it quietly spends its time deep at the bottom of the sea because its powers are too strong.
ho-oh	Legends claim this POKéMON flies the world's skies con­ tinuously on its magnificent seven- colored wings.
celebi	This POKéMON wan­ ders across time. Grass and trees flourish in the forests in which it has appeared.
treecko	TREECKO has small hooks on the bottom of its feet that enable it to scale vertical walls. This POKéMON attacks by slamming foes with its thick tail.
grovyle	The leaves growing out of GROVYLE’s body are convenient for camouflaging it from enemies in the forest. This POKéMON is a master at climbing trees in jungles.
sceptile	The leaves growing on SCEPTILE’s body are very sharp edged. This POKéMON is very agile - it leaps all over the branches of trees and jumps on its foe from above or behind.
torchic	TORCHIC sticks with its TRAINER, following behind with unsteady steps. This POKéMON breathes fire of over 1,800 degrees F, including fireballs that leave the foe scorched black.
combusken	COMBUSKEN toughens up its legs and thighs by running through fields and mountains. This POKéMON’s legs possess both speed and power, enabling it to dole out ten kicks in one second.
blaziken	In battle, BLAZIKEN blows out intense flames from its wrists and attacks foes courageously. The stronger the foe, the more intensely this POKéMON’s wrists burn.
mudkip	The fin on MUDKIP’s head acts as highly sensitive radar. Using this fin to sense movements of water and air, this POKéMON can determine what is taking place around it without using its eyes.
marshtomp	The surface of MARSHTOMP’s body is enveloped by a thin, sticky film that enables it to live on land. This POKéMON plays in mud on beaches when the ocean tide is low.
swampert	SWAMPERT is very strong. It has enough power to easily drag a boulder weighing more than a ton. This POKéMON also has powerful vision that lets it see even in murky water.
poochyena	At first sight, POOCHYENA takes a bite at anything that moves. This POKéMON chases after prey until the victim becomes exhausted. However, it may turn tail if the prey strikes back.
mightyena	MIGHTYENA gives obvious signals when it is preparing to attack. It starts to growl deeply and then flattens its body. This POKéMON will bite savagely with its sharply pointed fangs.
zigzagoon	ZIGZAGOON restlessly wanders everywhere at all times. This POKéMON does so because it is very curious. It becomes interested in anything that it happens to see.
linoone	LINOONE always runs full speed and only in straight lines. If facing an obstacle, it makes a right-angle turn to evade it. This POKéMON is very challenged by gently curving roads.
wurmple	Using the spikes on its rear end,   WURMPLE peels the bark off trees and feeds on the sap that oozes out. This POKéMON’s feet are tipped with suction pads that allow it to cling to glass without slipping.
silcoon	SILCOON tethers itself to a tree branch using silk to keep from falling. There,  this POKéMON hangs quietly while it awaits evolution. It peers out of the silk cocoon through a small hole.
beautifly	BEAUTIFLY’s favorite food is the sweet pollen of flowers. If you want to see this POKéMON, just leave a potted flower by an open window. BEAUTIFLY is sure to come looking for pollen.
cascoon	CASCOON makes its protective cocoon by wrapping its body entirely with a fine silk from its mouth. Once the silk goes around its body, it hardens. This POKéMON prepares for its evolution inside the cocoon.
dustox	DUSTOX is instinctively drawn to light. Swarms of this POKéMON are attracted by the bright lights of cities, where they wreak havoc by stripping the leaves off roadside trees for food.
lotad	It searches about for clean water. If it does not drink water for too long, the leaf on its head wilts.
lombre	It lives at the water’s edge where it is sunny. It sleeps on a bed of water grass by day and becomes active at night.
ludicolo	LUDICOLO begins dancing as soon as it hears cheerful, festive music. This POKéMON is said to appear when it hears the singing of children on hiking outings.
seedot	SEEDOT attaches itself to a tree branch using the top of its head. It sucks moisture from the tree while hanging off the branch. The more water it drinks, the glossier this POKéMON’s body becomes.
nuzleaf	NUZLEAF live in densely overgrown forests. They occasionally venture out of the forest to startle people. This POKéMON dislikes having its long nose pinched.
shiftry	It lives quietly in the deep forest. It is said to create chilly winter winds with the fans it holds.
taillow	TAILLOW courageously stands its ground against foes, however strong they may be. This gutsy POKéMON will remain defiant even after a loss. On the other hand, it cries loudly if it becomes hungry.
swellow	SWELLOW flies high above our heads, making graceful arcs in the sky. This POKéMON dives at a steep angle as soon as it spots its prey. The hapless prey is tightly grasped by SWELLOW’s clawed feet, preventing escape.
wingull	WINGULL has the habit of carrying prey and valuables in its beak and hiding them in all sorts of locations. This POKéMON rides the winds and flies as if it were skating across the sky.
pelipper	It is a messenger of the skies, carrying small Pokémon and eggs to safety in its bill.
ralts	RALTS senses the emotions of people using the horns on its head. This POKéMON rarely appears before people. But when it does, it draws closer if it senses that the person has a positive disposition.
kirlia	It is said that a KIRLIA that is exposed to the positive emotions of its TRAINER grows beautiful. This POKéMON controls psychokinetic powers with its highly developed brain.
gardevoir	GARDEVOIR has the ability to read the future. If it senses impending danger to its TRAINER, this POKéMON is said to unleash its psychokinetic energy at full power.
surskit	From the tips of its feet, SURSKIT secretes an oil that enables it to walk on water as if it were skating. This POKéMON feeds on microscopic organisms in ponds and lakes.
masquerain	MASQUERAIN intimidates enemies with the eyelike patterns on its antennas. This POKéMON flaps its four wings to freely fly in any direction - even sideways and backwards - as if it were a helicopter.
shroomish	SHROOMISH live in damp soil in the dark depths of forests. They are often found keeping still under fallen leaves. This POKéMON feeds on compost that is made up of fallen, rotted leaves.
breloom	BRELOOM closes in on its foe with light and sprightly footwork, then throws punches with its stretchy arms. This POKéMON’s fighting technique puts boxers to shame.
slakoth	SLAKOTH lolls around for over twenty hours every day. Because it moves so little, it does not need much food. This POKéMON’s sole daily meal consists of just three leaves.
vigoroth	VIGOROTH is always itching and agitated to go on a wild rampage. It simply can’t tolerate sitting still for even a minute. This POKéMON’s stress level rises if it can’t be moving constantly.
slaking	SLAKING spends all day lying down and lolling about. It eats grass growing within its reach. If it eats all the grass it can reach, this POKéMON reluctantly moves to another spot.
nincada	NINCADA lives underground for many years in complete darkness. This POKéMON absorbs nutrients from the roots of trees. It stays motionless as it waits for evolution.
ninjask	NINJASK moves around at such a high speed that it cannot be seen, even while its crying can be clearly heard. For that reason, this POKéMON was long believed to be invisible.
shedinja	SHEDINJA’s hard body doesn’t move - not even a twitch. In fact, its body appears to be merely a hollow shell. It is believed that this POKéMON will steal the spirit of anyone peering into its hollow body from its back.
whismur	Normally, WHISMUR’s voice is very quiet - it is barely audible even if one is paying close attention. However, if this POKéMON senses danger, it starts crying at an earsplitting volume.
loudred	LOUDRED’s bellowing can completely decimate a wood-frame house. It uses its voice to punish its foes. This POKéMON’s round ears serve as loudspeakers.
exploud	EXPLOUD triggers earthquakes with the tremors it creates by bellowing. If this POKéMON violently inhales from the ports on its body, it’s a sign that it is preparing to let loose a huge bellow.
makuhita	MAKUHITA is tenacious - it will keep getting up and attacking its foe however many times it is knocked down. Every time it gets back up, this POKéMON stores more energy in its body for evolving.
hariyama	It has the habit of challenging others without hesitation to tests of strength. It’s been known to stand on train tracks and stop trains using forearm thrusts.
azurill	A Pokémon that lives by water. It moves quickly on land by bouncing on its big tail.
nosepass	NOSEPASS’s magnetic nose is always pointed to the north. If two of these POKéMON meet, they cannot turn their faces to each other when they are close because their magnetic noses repel one another.
skitty	SKITTY has the habit of becoming fascinated by moving objects and chasing them around. This POKéMON is known to chase after its own tail and become dizzy.
delcatty	DELCATTY prefers to live an unfettered existence in which it can do as it pleases at its own pace. Because this POKéMON eats and sleeps whenever it decides, its daily routines are completely random.
sableye	SABLEYE lead quiet lives deep inside caverns. They are feared, however, because these POKéMON are thought to steal the spirits of people when their eyes burn with a sinister glow in the darkness.
mawile	MAWHILE’s huge jaws are actually steel horns that have been transformed. Its docile-looking face serves to lull its foe into letting down its guard. When the foe least expects it, MAWHILE chomps it with its gaping jaws.
aron	This POKéMON has a body of steel. To make its body, ARON feeds on iron ore that it digs from mountains. Occasionally, it causes major trouble by eating bridges and rails.
lairon	LAIRON tempers its steel body by drinking highly nutritious mineral springwater until it is bloated. This POKéMON makes its nest close to springs of delicious water.
aggron	AGGRON claims an entire mountain as its own territory. It mercilessly beats up anything that violates its environment. This POKéMON vigilantly patrols its territory at all times.
meditite	MEDITITE undertakes rigorous mental training deep in the mountains. However, whenever it meditates, this POKéMON always loses its concentration and focus. As a result, its training never ends.
medicham	It is said that through meditation, MEDICHAM heightens energy inside its body and sharpens its sixth sense. This POKéMON hides its presence by merging itself with fields and mountains.
electrike	ELECTRIKE stores electricity in its long body hair. This POKéMON stimulates its leg muscles with electric charges. These jolts of power give its legs explosive acceleration performance.
manectric	MANECTRIC is constantly discharging electricity from its mane. The sparks sometimes ignite forest fires. When it enters a battle, this POKéMON creates thunderclouds.
plusle	PLUSLE always acts as a cheerleader for its partners. Whenever a teammate puts out a good effort in battle, this POKéMON shorts out its body to create the crackling noises of sparks to show its joy.
minun	MINUN is more concerned about cheering on its partners than its own safety. It shorts out the electricity in its body to create brilliant showers of sparks to cheer on its teammates.
volbeat	With the arrival of night, VOLBEAT emits light from its tail. It communicates with others by adjusting the intensity and flashing of its light. This POKéMON is attracted by the sweet aroma of ILLUMISE.
illumise	With its sweet aroma, it guides Volbeat to draw signs with light in the night sky.
roselia	ROSELIA shoots sharp thorns as projectiles at any opponent that tries to steal the flowers on its arms. The aroma of this POKéMON brings serenity to living things.
gulpin	Virtually all of GULPIN’s body is its stomach. As a result, it can swallow something its own size. This POKéMON’s stomach contains a special fluid that digests anything.
swalot	When SWALOT spots prey, it spurts out a hideously toxic fluid from its pores and sprays the target. Once the prey has weakened, this POKéMON gulps it down whole with its cavernous mouth.
carvanha	CARVANHA’s strongly developed jaws and its sharply pointed fangs pack the destructive power to rip out boat hulls. Many boats have been attacked and sunk by this POKéMON.
sharpedo	Nicknamed “the bully of the sea,” SHARPEDO is widely feared. Its cruel fangs grow back immediately if they snap off. Just one of these POKéMON can thoroughly tear apart a supertanker.
wailmer	WAILMER’s nostrils are located above its eyes. This playful POKéMON loves to startle people by forcefully snorting out seawater it stores inside its body out of its nostrils.
wailord	WAILORD is the largest of all identified POKéMON up to now. This giant POKéMON swims languorously in the vast open sea, eating massive amounts of food at once with its enormous mouth.
numel	NUMEL is extremely dull witted - it doesn’t notice being hit. However, it can’t stand hunger for even a second. This POKéMON’s body is a seething cauldron of boiling magma.
camerupt	CAMERUPT has a volcano inside its body. Magma of 18,000 degrees F courses through its body. Occasionally, the humps on this POKéMON’s back erupt, spewing the superheated magma.
torkoal	You can tell how it’s feeling by the smoke spouting from its shell. Tremendous velocity is a sign of good health.
spoink	SPOINK bounces around on its tail. The shock of its bouncing makes its heart pump. As a result, this POKéMON cannot afford to stop bouncing - if it stops, its heart will stop.
grumpig	GRUMPIG uses the black pearls on its body to amplify its psychic power waves for gaining total control over its foe. When this POKéMON uses its special power, its snorting breath grows labored.
spinda	No two Spinda have the same pattern of spots. Its tottering step fouls the aim of foes.
trapinch	TRAPINCH’s nest is a sloped, bowl-like pit dug in sand. This POKéMON patiently waits for prey to tumble down the pit. Its giant jaws have enough strength to crush even boulders.
vibrava	To make prey faint, VIBRAVA generates ultrasonic waves by vigorously making its two wings vibrate. This POKéMON’s ultrasonic waves are so powerful, they can bring on headaches in people.
flygon	FLYGON is nicknamed “the elemental  spirit of the desert.” Because its flapping wings whip up a cloud of sand, this POKéMON is always enveloped in a sandstorm while flying.
cacnea	CACNEA lives in arid locations such as deserts. It releases a strong aroma from its flower to attract prey. When prey comes near, this POKéMON shoots sharp thorns from its body to bring the victim down.
cacturne	During the daytime, CACTURNE remains unmoving so that it does not lose any moisture to the harsh desert sun. This POKéMON becomes active at night when the temperature drops.
swablu	SWABLU has light and fluffy wings that are like cottony clouds. This POKéMON is not frightened of people. It lands on the heads of people and sits there like a cotton-fluff hat.
altaria	ALTARIA dances and wheels through the sky among billowing, cotton-like clouds. By singing melodies in its crystal-clear voice, this POKéMON makes its listeners experience dreamy wonderment.
zangoose	Memories of battling its arch-rival SEVIPER are etched into every cell of ZANGOOSE’s body. This POKéMON adroitly dodges attacks with incredible agility.
seviper	SEVIPER shares a generations-long feud with ZANGOOSE. The scars on its body are evidence of vicious battles. This POKéMON attacks using its sword- edged tail.
lunatone	LUNATONE was discovered at a location where a meteorite fell. As a result, some people theorize that this POKéMON came from space. However, no one has been able to prove this theory so far.
solrock	Solar energy is the source of its power, so it is strong during the daytime. When it spins, its body shines.
barboach	BARBOACH’s sensitive whiskers serve as a superb radar system. This POKéMON hides in mud, leaving only its two whiskers exposed while it waits for prey to come along.
whiscash	WHISCASH is extremely territorial. Just one of these POKéMON will claim a large pond as its exclusive territory. If a foe approaches it, it thrashes about and triggers a massive earthquake.
corphish	Its hardy vitality enables it to adapt to any environment. Its pincers will never release prey.
crawdaunt	CRAWDAUNT has an extremely violent nature that compels it to challenge other living things to battle. Other life-forms refuse to live in ponds inhabited by this POKéMON, making them desolate places.
baltoy	BALTOY moves while spinning around on its one foot. Primitive wall paintings depicting this POKéMON living among people were discovered in some ancient ruins.
claydol	CLAYDOL are said to be dolls of mud made by primitive humans and brought to life by exposure to a mysterious ray. This POKéMON moves about while levitating.
lileep	LILEEP became extinct approximately a hundred million years ago. This ancient POKéMON attaches itself to a rock on the seafloor and catches approaching prey using tentacles  shaped like flower petals.
cradily	CRADILY roams around the ocean floor in search of food. This POKéMON freely extends its tree trunk-like neck and captures unwary prey using its eight tentacles.
anorith	ANORITH was regenerated from a prehistoric fossil. This primitive POKéMON once lived in warm seas. It grips its prey firmly between its two large claws.
armaldo	ARMALDO’s tough armor makes all attacks bounce off. This POKéMON’s two enormous claws can be freely extended or contracted. They have the power to punch right through a steel slab.
feebas	FEEBAS’s fins are ragged and tattered from the start of its life. Because of its shoddy appearance, this POKéMON is largely ignored. It is capable of living in both the sea and in rivers.
milotic	Its lovely scales are described as rainbow colored. They change color depending on the viewing angle.
castform	CASTFORM’s appearance changes with the weather. This POKéMON gained the ability to use the vast power of nature to protect its tiny body.
kecleon	It changes body color to blend in with its surroundings. It also changes color if it is happy or sad.
shuppet	SHUPPET is attracted by feelings of jealousy and vindictiveness. If someone develops strong feelings of vengeance, this POKéMON will appear in a swarm and line up beneath the eaves of that person’s home.
banette	BANETTE generates energy for laying strong curses by sticking pins into its own body. This POKéMON was originally a pitiful plush doll that was thrown away.
duskull	DUSKULL can pass through any wall no matter how thick it may be. Once this POKéMON chooses a target, it will doggedly pursue the intended victim until the break of dawn.
dusclops	DUSCLOPS’s body is completely hollow - there is nothing at all inside. It is said that its body is like a black hole. This POKéMON will absorb anything into its body, but nothing will ever come back out.
tropius	The bunches of fruit around TROPIUS’s neck are very popular with children. This POKéMON loves fruit, and eats it continuously. Apparently, its love for fruit resulted in its own outgrowth of fruit.
chimecho	CHIMECHO makes its cries echo inside its hollow body. When this POKéMON becomes enraged, its cries result in ultrasonic waves that have the power to knock foes flying.
absol	Every time ABSOL appears before people, it is followed by a disaster such as an earthquake or a tidal wave. As a result, it came to be known as the disaster POKéMON.
wynaut	WYNAUT can always be seen with a big, happy smile on its face. Look at its tail to determine if it is angry. When angered, this POKéMON will be slapping the ground with its tail.
snorunt	SNORUNT live in regions with heavy snowfall. In seasons without snow, such as spring and summer, this POKéMON steals away to live quietly among stalactites and stalagmites deep in caverns.
glalie	GLALIE has a body made of rock, which it hardens with an armor of ice. This POKéMON has the ability to freeze moisture in the atmosphere into any shape it desires.
spheal	SPHEAL is much faster rolling than  walking to get around. When groups of this POKéMON eat, they all clap at once to show their pleasure. Because of this, their mealtimes are noisy.
sealeo	SEALEO has the habit of always juggling on the tip of its nose anything it sees for the first time. This POKéMON occasionally entertains itself by balancing and rolling a SPHEAL on its nose.
walrein	It swims through icy seas while shattering ice floes with its large tusks. It is protected by its thick blubber.
clamperl	CLAMPERL’s sturdy shell is not only good for protection - it is also used for clamping and catching prey. A fully grown CLAMPERL’s shell will be scored with nicks and scratches all over.
huntail	HUNTAIL’s presence went unnoticed by people for a long time because it lives at extreme depths in the sea. This POKéMON’s eyes can see clearly even in the murky dark depths of the ocean.
gorebyss	GOREBYSS lives in the southern seas at extreme depths. Its body is built to withstand the enormous pressure of water at incredible depths. Because of this, this POKéMON’s body is unharmed by ordinary attacks.
relicanth	RELICANTH is a POKéMON species that existed for a hundred million years without ever changing its form. This ancient POKéMON feeds on microscopic organisms with its toothless mouth.
luvdisc	LUVDISC live in shallow seas in the tropics. This heart-shaped POKéMON earned its name by swimming after loving couples it spotted in the ocean’s waves.
bagon	Dreaming of one day flying, it practices by leaping off cliffs every day.
shelgon	Inside SHELGON’s armor-like shell, cells are in the midst of transformation to create an entirely new body. This POKéMON’s shell is extremely heavy, making its movements sluggish.
salamence	SALAMENCE came about as a result of a strong, long-held dream of growing wings. It is said that this powerful desire triggered a sudden mutation in this POKéMON’s cells, causing it to sprout its magnificent wings.
beldum	Instead of blood, a powerful magnetic force courses throughout BELDUM’s body. This POKéMON communicates with others by sending controlled pulses of magnetism.
metang	When two BELDUM fuse together, METANG is formed. The brains of the BELDUM are joined by a magnetic nervous system. By linking its brains magnetically, this POKéMON generates strong psychokinetic power.
metagross	METAGROSS has four brains in total. Combined, the four brains can breeze through difficult calculations faster than a supercomputer. This POKéMON can float in the air by tucking in its four legs.
regirock	Its entire body is made of rock. If any part chips off in battle, it attaches rocks to repair itself.
regice	REGICE’s body was made during an ice age. The deep-frozen body can’t be melted, even by fire. This POKéMON controls frigid air of minus 328 degrees F.
registeel	REGISTEEL has a body that is harder than any kind of metal. Its body is apparently hollow. No one has any idea what this POKéMON eats.
latias	LATIAS is highly sensitive to the emotions of people. If it senses any hostility, this POKéMON ruffles the feathers all over its body and cries shrilly to intimidate the foe.
latios	LATIOS has the ability to make its foe see an image of what it has seen or imagines in its head. This POKéMON is intelligent and understands human speech.
kyogre	KYOGRE has the power to create massive rain clouds that cover the entire sky and bring about torrential downpours. This POKéMON saved people who were suffering from droughts.
groudon	GROUDON has long been described in  mythology as the POKéMON that raised lands and expanded continents. This POKéMON took to sleep after a cataclysmic battle with KYOGRE.
rayquaza	RAYQUAZA lived for hundreds of millions of years in the earth’s ozone layer,  never descending to the ground. This POKéMON appears to feed on water and particles in the atmosphere.
jirachi	A legend states that JIRACHI will make true any wish that is written on notes attached to its head when it awakens. If this POKéMON senses danger, it will fight without awakening.
deoxys	The DNA of a space virus underwent a sudden mutation upon exposure to a laser beam and resulted in DEOXYS. The crystalline organ on this POKéMON’s chest appears to be its brain.
turtwig	Made from soil, the shell on its back hardens when it drinks water. It lives along lakes.
grotle	It knows where pure water wells up. It carries fellow Pokémon there on its back.
torterra	Small Pokémon occasionally gather on its unmoving back to begin building their nests.
chimchar	It agilely scales sheer cliffs to live atop craggy mountains. Its fire is put out when it sleeps.
monferno	To intimidate attackers, it stretches the fire on its tail to make itself appear bigger.
infernape	It uses a special kind of martial arts involving all its limbs. Its fire never goes out.
piplup	Because it is very proud, it hates accepting food from people. Its thick down guards it from cold.
prinplup	It lives alone, away from others. Apparently, every one of them believes it is the most important.
empoleon	The three horns that extend from its beak attest to its power. The leader has the biggest horns.
starly	They flock in great numbers. Though small, they flap their wings with great power.
staravia	It flies around forests and fields in search of bug Pokémon. It stays within a huge flock.
staraptor	It has a savage nature. It will courageously challenge foes that are much larger.
bidoof	With nerves of steel, nothing can perturb it. It is more agile and active than it appears.
bibarel	It makes its nest by damming streams with bark and mud. It is known as an industrious worker.
kricketot	It shakes its head back to front, causing its antennae to hit each other and sound like a xylophone.
kricketune	It crosses its knifelike arms in front of its chest when it cries. It can compose melodies ad lib.
shinx	All of its fur dazzles if danger is sensed. It flees while the foe is momentarily blinded.
luxio	Its claws loose electricity with enough amperage to cause fainting. They live in small groups.
luxray	It has eyes that can see through anything. It spots and captures prey hiding behind objects.
budew	Over the winter, it closes its bud and endures the cold. In spring, the bud opens and releases pollen.
roserade	It attracts prey with a sweet aroma, then downs it with thorny whips hidden in its arms.
cranidos	It lived in jungles around 100 million years ago. Its skull is as hard as iron.
rampardos	Its powerful head butt has enough power to shatter even the most durable things upon impact.
shieldon	A Pokémon that lived in jungles around 100 million years ago. Its facial hide is extremely hard.
bastiodon	Any frontal attack is repulsed. It is a docile Pokémon that feeds on grass and berries.
burmy	To shelter itself from cold, wintry winds, it covers itself with a cloak made of twigs and leaves.
wormadam	When BURMY evolved, its cloak became a part of this Pokémon’s body. The cloak is never shed.
mothim	It loves the honey of flowers and steals honey collected by COMBEE.
combee	A Pokémon formed by three others. It busily carries sweet floral honey to VESPIQUEN.
vespiquen	Its abdomen is a honeycomb for grubs. It raises its grubs on honey collected by COMBEE.
pachirisu	It makes fur balls that crackle with static electricity. It stores them with berries in tree holes.
buizel	It has a flotation sac that is like an inflatable collar. It floats on water with its head out.
floatzel	It floats using its well-developed flotation sac. It assists in the rescues of drowning people.
cherubi	The small ball holds the nutrients needed for evolution. Apparently, it is very sweet and tasty.
cherrim	It blooms during times of strong sunlight. It tries to make up for everything it endured as a bud.
shellos	Its colors and shapes differ from region to region. In the Sinnoh region, two types are confirmed.
gastrodon	It has a pliable body without any bones. If any part of its body is torn off, it grows right back.
ambipom	To eat, it deftly shucks nuts with its two tails. It rarely uses its arms now.
drifloon	A Pokémon formed by the spirits of people and Pokémon. It loves damp, humid seasons.
drifblim	At dusk, swarms of them are carried aloft on winds. When noticed, they suddenly vanish.
buneary	It slams foes by sharply uncoiling its rolled ears. It stings enough to make a grown-up cry in pain.
lopunny	An extremely cautious Pokémon. It cloaks its body with its fluffy ear fur when it senses danger.
mismagius	Its cries sound like incantations. Those hearing it are tormented by headaches and hallucinations.
honchkrow	Becoming active at night, it is known to swarm with numerous MURKROW in tow.
glameow	It claws if displeased and purrs when affectionate. Its fickleness is very popular among some.
purugly	It is a brazen brute that barges its way into another Pokémon’s nest and claims it as its own.
chingling	It emits cries by agitating an orb at the back of its throat. It moves with flouncing hops.
stunky	It protects itself by spraying a noxious fluid from its rear. The stench lingers for 24 hours.
skuntank	It sprays a vile-smelling fluid from the tip of its tail to attack. Its range is over 160 feet.
bronzor	Implements shaped like it were discovered in ancient tombs. It is unknown if they are related.
bronzong	One caused a news sensation when it was dug up at a construction site after a 2,000-year sleep.
bonsly	It looks as if it is always crying. It is actually adjusting its body’s fluid levels by eliminating excess.
mime-jr	It habitually mimics foes. Once mimicked, the foe cannot take its eyes off this Pokémon.
happiny	It loves round white things. It carries an egg-shaped rock in imitation of CHANSEY.
chatot	It can learn and speak human words. If they gather, they all learn the same saying.
spiritomb	A Pokémon that was formed by 108 spirits. It is bound to a fissure in an odd keystone.
gible	It nests in small, horizontal holes in cave walls. It pounces to catch prey that stray too close.
gabite	There is a long-held belief that medicine made from its scales will heal even incurable illnesses.
garchomp	When it folds up its body and extends its wings, it looks like a jet plane. It flies at sonic speed.
munchlax	It wolfs down its weight in food once a day, swallowing food whole with almost no chewing.
riolu	The aura that emanates from its body intensifies to alert others if it is afraid or sad.
lucario	It has the ability to sense the auras of all things. It understands human speech.
hippopotas	It lives in arid places. Instead of perspiration, it expels grainy sand from its body.
hippowdon	It blasts internally stored sand from ports on its body to create a towering twister for attack.
skorupi	It grips prey with its tail claws and injects poison. It tenaciously hangs on until the poison takes.
drapion	It has the power in its clawed arms to make scrap of a car. The tips of its claws release poison.
croagunk	Its cheeks hold poison sacs. It tries to catch foes off guard to jab them with toxic fingers.
toxicroak	Its knuckle claws secrete a toxin so vile that even a scratch could prove fatal.
carnivine	It attracts prey with its sweet- smelling saliva, then chomps down. It takes a whole day to eat prey.
finneon	After long exposure to sunlight, the patterns on its tail fins shine vividly when darkness arrives.
lumineon	It lives on the deep-sea floor. It attracts prey by flashing the patterns on its four tail fins.
mantyke	A friendly Pokémon that captures the subtle flows of seawater using its two antennae.
snover	It lives on snowy mountains. Having had little contact with humans, it is boldly inquisitive.
abomasnow	It whips up blizzards in mountains that are always buried in snow. It is the abominable snowman.
weavile	They live in cold regions, forming groups of four or five that hunt prey with impressive coordination.
magnezone	It evolved from exposure to a special magnetic field. Three units generate magnetism.
lickilicky	It wraps things with its extensible tongue. Getting too close to it will leave you soaked with drool.
rhyperior	It puts rocks in holes in its palms and uses its muscles to shoot them. GEODUDE are shot at rare times.
tangrowth	It ensnares prey by extending arms made of vines. Losing arms to predators does not trouble it.
electivire	As its electric charge amplifies, blue sparks begin to crackle between its horns.
magmortar	It blasts fireballs of over 3,600 degrees F from the ends of its arms. It lives in volcanic craters.
togekiss	It will never appear where there is strife. Its sightings have become rare recently.
yanmega	By churning its wings, it creates shock waves that inflict critical internal injuries to foes.
leafeon	Just like a plant, it uses photosynthesis. As a result, it is always enveloped in clear air.
glaceon	As a protective technique, it can completely freeze its fur to make its hairs stand like needles.
gliscor	It observes prey while hanging inverted from branches. When the chance presents itself, it swoops!
mamoswine	Its impressive tusks are made of ice. The population thinned when it turned warm after the ice age.
porygon-z	Additional software was installed to make it a better Pokémon. It began acting oddly, however.
gallade	A master of courtesy and swordsmanship, it fights using extending swords on its elbows.
probopass	It freely controls three small units called Mini-Noses using magnetic force.
dusknoir	The antenna on its head captures radio waves from the world of spirits that command it to take people there.
froslass	It freezes foes with an icy breath nearly -60 degrees F. What seems to be its body is actually hollow.
rotom	Its body is composed of plasma. It is known to infiltrate electronic devices and wreak havoc.
uxie	Known as “The Being of Knowledge.” It is said that it can wipe out the memory of those who see its eyes.
mesprit	Known as “The Being of Emotion.” It taught humans the nobility of sorrow, pain, and joy.
azelf	Known as “The Being of Willpower.” It sleeps at the bottom of a lake to keep the world in balance.
dialga	It has the power to control time. It appears in Sinnoh-region myths as an ancient deity.
palkia	It has the ability to distort space. It is described as a deity in Sinnoh-region mythology.
heatran	It dwells in volcanic caves. It digs in with its cross-shaped feet to crawl on ceilings and walls.
regigigas	There is an enduring legend that states this Pokémon towed continents with ropes.
giratina	A Pokémon that is said to live in a world on the reverse side of ours. It appears in an ancient cemetery.
cresselia	Shiny particles are released from its wings like a veil. It is said to represent the crescent moon.
phione	It drifts in warm seas. It always returns to where it was born, no matter how far it may have drifted.
manaphy	Born on a cold seafloor, it will swim great distances to return to its birthplace.
darkrai	It can lull people to sleep and make them dream. It is active during nights of the new moon.
shaymin	It lives in flower patches and avoids detection by curling up to look like a flowering plant.
arceus	It is described in mythology as the Pokémon that shaped the universe with its 1,000 arms.
victini	This Pokémon brings victory. It is said that Trainers with Victini always win, regardless of the type of encounter.
snivy	It is very intelligent and calm. Being exposed to lots of sunlight makes its movements swifter.
servine	It moves along the ground as if sliding. Its swift movements befuddle its foes, and it then attacks with a vine whip.
serperior	It can stop its opponents’ movements with just a glare. It takes in solar energy and boosts it internally.
tepig	It can deftly dodge its foe’s attacks while shooting fireballs from its nose. It roasts berries before it eats them.
pignite	When its internal fire flares up, its movements grow sharper and faster. When in trouble, it emits smoke.
emboar	It can throw a fire punch by setting its fists on fire with its fiery chin. It cares deeply about its friends.
oshawott	It fights using the scalchop on its stomach. In response to an attack, it retaliates immediately by slashing.
dewott	Strict training is how it learns its flowing double-scalchop technique.
samurott	One swing of the sword incorporated in its armor can fell an opponent. A simple glare from one of them quiets everybody.
patrat	Using food stored in cheek pouches, they can keep watch for days. They use their tails to communicate with others.
watchog	When they see an enemy, their tails stand high, and they spit the seeds of berries stored in their cheek pouches.
lillipup	It faces strong opponents with great courage. But, when at a disadvantage in a fight, this intelligent Pokémon flees.
herdier	It has black, cape-like fur that is very hard and decreases the amount of damage it receives.
stoutland	It rescues people stranded by blizzards in the mountains. Its shaggy fur shields it from the cold.
purrloin	They steal from people for fun, but their victims can’t help but forgive them. Their deceptively cute act is perfect.
liepard	These Pokémon vanish and appear unexpectedly. Many Trainers are drawn to their beautiful form and fur.
pansage	This Pokémon dwells deep in the forest. Eating a leaf from its head whisks weariness away as if by magic.
simisage	Ill tempered, it fights by swinging its barbed tail around wildly. The leaf growing on its head is very bitter.
pansear	When it is angered, the temperature of its head tuft reaches 600° F. It uses its tuft to roast berries.
simisear	It loves sweets because they become energy for the fire burning inside its body.
panpour	The water stored inside the tuft on its head is full of nutrients. Plants that receive its water grow large.
simipour	The tuft on its head holds water. When the level runs low, it replenishes the tuft by siphoning up water with its tail.
munna	Munna always float in the air. People whose dreams are eaten by them forget what the dreams had been about.
musharna	The mist emanating from their foreheads is packed with the dreams of people and Pokémon.
pidove	Each follows its Trainer’s orders as best it can, but they sometimes fail to understand complicated commands.
tranquill	It can return to its Trainer’s location regardless of the distance separating them.
unfezant	Males swing their head plumage to threaten opponents. The females’ flying abilities surpass those of the males.
blitzle	When thunderclouds cover the sky, it will appear. It can catch lightning with its mane and store the electricity.
zebstrika	They have lightning-like movements. When Zebstrika run at full speed, the sound of thunder reverberates.
roggenrola	Its ear is hexagonal in shape. Compressed underground, its body is as hard as steel.
boldore	When it overflows with power, the orange crystal on its body glows. It looks for underground water in caves.
gigalith	Compressing the energy from its internal core lets it fire off an attack capable of blowing away a mountain.
woobat	Its habitat is dark forests and caves. It emits ultrasonic waves from its nose to learn about its surroundings.
swoobat	It emits sound waves of various frequencies from its nose, including some powerful enough to destroy rocks.
drilbur	It can dig through the ground at a speed of 30 mph. It could give a car running aboveground a good race.
excadrill	It can help in tunnel construction. Its drill has evolved into steel strong enough to bore through iron plates.
audino	It touches others with the feelers on its ears, using the sound of their heartbeats to tell how they are feeling.
timburr	It fights by swinging a piece of lumber around. It is close to evolving when it can handle the lumber without difficulty.
gurdurr	This Pokémon is so muscular and strongly built that even a group of wrestlers could not make it budge an inch.
conkeldurr	It is thought that Conkeldurr taught humans how to make concrete more than 2,000 years ago.
tympole	They warn others of danger by vibrating their cheeks to create a high-pitched sound.
palpitoad	When they vibrate the bumps on their heads, they can make waves in water or earthquake-like vibrations on land.
seismitoad	They shoot paralyzing liquid from their head bumps. They use vibration to hurt their opponents.
throh	When it tightens its belt, it becomes stronger. Wild Throh use vines to weave their own belts.
sawk	The sound of Sawk punching boulders and trees can be heard all the way from the mountains where they train.
sewaddle	Leavanny dress it in clothes they made for it when it hatched. It hides its head in its hood while it is sleeping.
swadloon	Forests where Swadloon live have superb foliage because the nutrients they make from fallen leaves nourish the plant life.
leavanny	Upon finding a small Pokémon, it weaves clothing for it from leaves, using the cutters on its arms and sticky silk.
venipede	Its bite injects a potent poison, enough to paralyze large bird Pokémon that try to prey on it.
whirlipede	Protected by a hard shell, it spins its body like a wheel and crashes furiously into its enemies.
scolipede	With quick movements, it chases down its foes, attacking relentlessly with its horns until it prevails.
cottonee	When attacked, it escapes by shooting cotton from its body. The cotton serves as a decoy to distract the attacker.
whimsicott	Like the wind, it can slip through any gap, no matter how small. It leaves balls of white fluff behind.
petilil	The leaves on its head are very bitter. Eating one of these leaves is known to refresh a tired body.
lilligant	Even veteran Trainers face a challenge in getting its beautiful flower to bloom. This Pokémon is popular with celebrities.
basculin	Red and blue Basculin get along so poorly, they’ll start fighting instantly. These Pokémon are very hostile.
sandile	They live buried in the sands of the desert. The sun-warmed sands prevent their body temperature from dropping.
krokorok	They live in groups of a few individuals. Protective membranes shield their eyes from sandstorms.
krookodile	They never allow prey to escape. Their jaws are so powerful, they can crush the body of an automobile.
darumaka	When its internal fire is burning, it cannot calm down and it runs around. When the fire diminishes, it falls asleep.
darmanitan	Its internal fire burns at 2,500° F, making enough power that it can destroy a dump truck with one punch.
maractus	It uses an up-tempo song and dance to drive away the bird Pokémon that prey on its flower seeds.
dwebble	This Pokémon can easily melt holes in hard rocks with a liquid secreted from its mouth.
crustle	Competing for territory, Crustle fight viciously. The one whose boulder is broken is the loser of the battle.
scraggy	Its skin has a rubbery elasticity, so it can reduce damage by defensively pulling its skin up to its neck.
scrafty	Groups of them beat up anything that enters their territory. Each can spit acidic liquid from its mouth.
sigilyph	They never vary the route they fly, because their memories of guarding an ancient city remain steadfast.
yamask	Each of them carries a mask that used to be its face when it was human. Sometimes they look at it and cry.
cofagrigus	It has been said that they swallow those who get too close and turn them into mummies. They like to eat gold nuggets.
tirtouga	Restored from a fossil, this Pokémon can dive to depths beyond half a mile.
carracosta	They can live both in the ocean and on land. A slap from one of them is enough to open a hole in the bottom of a tanker.
archen	Said to be an ancestor of bird Pokémon, they were unable to fly and moved about by hopping from one branch to another.
archeops	They are intelligent and will cooperate to catch prey. From the ground, they use a running start to take flight.
trubbish	Inhaling the gas they belch will make you sleep for a week. They prefer unsanitary places.
garbodor	It clenches opponents with its left arm and finishes them off with foul-smelling poison gas belched from its mouth.
zorua	It changes into the forms of others to surprise them. Apparently, it often transforms into a silent child.
zoroark	Bonds between these Pokémon are very strong. It protects the safety of its pack by tricking its opponents.
minccino	They greet one another by rubbing each other with their tails, which are always kept well groomed and clean.
cinccino	Their white fur is coated in a special oil that makes it easy for them to deflect attacks.
gothita	Their ribbonlike feelers increase their psychic power. They are always staring at something.
gothorita	They use hypnosis to control people and Pokémon. Tales of Gothorita leading people astray are told in every corner.
gothitelle	Starry skies thousands of light-years away are visible in the space distorted by their intense psychic power.
solosis	They drive away attackers by unleashing psychic power. They can use telepathy to talk with others.
duosion	Since they have two divided brains, at times they suddenly try to take two different actions at once.
reuniclus	When Reuniclus shake hands, a network forms between their brains, increasing their psychic power.
ducklett	These bird Pokémon are excellent divers. They swim around in the water eating their favorite food--peat moss.
swanna	Swanna start to dance at dusk. The one dancing in the middle is the leader of the flock.
vanillite	The temperature of their breath is -58° F. They create snow crystals and make snow fall in the areas around them.
vanillish	Snowy mountains are this Pokémon’s habitat. During an ancient ice age, they moved to southern areas.
vanilluxe	Swallowing large amounts of water, they make snow clouds inside their bodies and attack their foes with violent blizzards.
deerling	The color and scent of their fur changes to match the mountain grass. When they sense hostility, they hide in the grass.
sawsbuck	They migrate according to the seasons. People can tell the season by looking at Sawsbuck’s horns.
emolga	The energy made in its cheeks’ electric pouches is stored inside its membrane and released while it is gliding.
karrablast	These mysterious Pokémon evolve when they receive electrical stimulation while they are in the same place as Shelmet.
escavalier	They fly around at high speed, striking with their pointed spears. Even when in trouble, they face opponents bravely.
foongus	It lures people in with its Poké Ball pattern, then releases poison spores. Why it resembles a Poké Ball is unknown.
amoonguss	It lures prey close by dancing and waving its arm caps, which resemble Poké Balls, in a swaying motion.
frillish	With its thin, veil-like arms wrapped around the body of its opponent, it sinks to the ocean floor.
jellicent	The fate of the ships and crew that wander into Jellicent’s habitat: all sunken, all lost, all vanished.
alomomola	The special membrane enveloping Alomomola has the ability to heal wounds.
joltik	Joltik that live in cities have learned a technique for sucking electricity from the outlets in houses.
galvantula	When attacked, they create an electric barrier by spitting out many electrically charged threads.
ferroseed	When threatened, it attacks by shooting a barrage of spikes, which gives it a chance to escape by rolling away.
ferrothorn	It fights by swinging around its three spiky feelers. A hit from these steel spikes can reduce a boulder to rubble.
klink	The two minigears that mesh together are predetermined. Each will rebound from other minigears without meshing.
klang	By changing the direction in which it rotates, it communicates its feelings to others. When angry, it rotates faster.
klinklang	The gear with the red core is rotated at high speed for a rapid energy charge.
tynamo	While one alone doesn’t have much power, a chain of many Tynamo can be as powerful as lightning.
eelektrik	They coil around foes and shock them with electricity-generating organs that seem simply to be circular patterns.
eelektross	They crawl out of the ocean using their arms. They will attack prey on shore and immediately drag it into the ocean.
elgyem	It uses its strong psychic power to squeeze its opponent’s brain, causing unendurable headaches.
beheeyem	It can manipulate an opponent’s memory. Apparently, it communicates by flashing its three different-colored fingers.
litwick	Litwick shines a light that absorbs the life energy of people and Pokémon, which becomes the fuel that it burns.
lampent	This ominous Pokémon is feared. Through cities it wanders, searching for the spirits of the fallen.
chandelure	It absorbs a spirit, which it then burns. By waving the flames on its arms, it puts its foes into a hypnotic trance.
axew	They use their tusks to crush the berries they eat. Repeated regrowth makes their tusks strong and sharp.
fraxure	Since a broken tusk will not grow back, they diligently sharpen their tusks on river rocks after they’ve been fighting.
haxorus	They are kind but can be relentless when defending territory. They challenge foes with tusks that can cut steel.
cubchoo	When it is not feeling well, its mucus gets watery and the power of its Ice-type moves decreases.
beartic	It can make its breath freeze at will. Very able in the water, it swims around in northern seas and catches prey.
cryogonal	When its body temperature goes up, it turns into steam and vanishes. When its temperature lowers, it returns to ice.
shelmet	When attacked, it defends itself by closing the lid of its shell. It can spit a sticky, poisonous liquid.
accelgor	When its body dries out, it weakens. So, to prevent dehydration, it wraps itself in many layers of thin membrane.
stunfisk	Its skin is very hard, so it is unhurt even if stepped on by sumo wrestlers. It smiles when transmitting electricity.
mienfoo	In fights, they dominate with onslaughts of flowing, continuous attacks. With their sharp claws, they cut enemies.
mienshao	It wields the fur on its arms like a whip. Its arm attacks come with such rapidity that they cannot even be seen.
druddigon	It warms its body by absorbing sunlight with its wings. When its body temperature falls, it can no longer move.
golett	The energy that burns inside it enables it to move, but no one has yet been able to identify this energy.
golurk	It flies across the sky at Mach speeds. Removing the seal on its chest makes its internal energy go out of control.
pawniard	Blades comprise this Pokémon’s entire body. If battling dulls the blades, it sharpens them on stones by the river.
bisharp	It leads a group of Pawniard. It battles to become the boss, but will be driven from the group if it loses.
bouffalant	Their fluffy fur absorbs damage, even if they strike foes with a fierce headbutt.
rufflet	They crush berries with their talons. They bravely stand up to any opponent, no matter how strong it is.
braviary	They fight for their friends without any thought about danger to themselves. One can carry a car while flying.
vullaby	Their wings are too tiny to allow them to fly. They guard their posteriors with bones that were gathered by Mandibuzz.
mandibuzz	It makes a nest out of bones it finds. It grabs weakened prey in its talons and hauls it to its nest of bones.
heatmor	It breathes through a hole in its tail while it burns with an internal fire. Durant is its prey.
durant	They attack in groups, covering themselves in steel armor to protect themselves from Heatmor.
deino	It tends to bite everything, and it is not a picky eater. Approaching it carelessly is dangerous.
zweilous	After it has eaten up all the food in its territory, it moves to another area. Its two heads do not get along.
hydreigon	This brutal Pokémon travels the skies on its six wings. Anything that moves seems like a foe to it, triggering its attack.
larvesta	This Pokémon was believed to have been born from the sun. When it evolves, its entire body is engulfed in flames.
volcarona	When volcanic ash darkened the atmosphere, it is said that Volcarona’s fire provided a replacement for the sun.
cobalion	This legendary Pokémon battled against humans to protect Pokémon. Its personality is calm and composed.
terrakion	This Pokémon came to the defense of Pokémon that had lost their homes in a war among humans.
virizion	This Pokémon fought humans in order to protect its friends. Legends about it continue to be passed down.
tornadus	The lower half of its body is wrapped in a cloud of energy. It zooms through the sky at 200 mph.
thundurus	Countless charred remains mar the landscape of places through which Thundurus has passed.
reshiram	This Pokémon appears in legends. It sends flames into the air from its tail, burning up everything around it.
zekrom	Concealing itself in lightning clouds, it flies throughout the Unova region. It creates electricity in its tail.
landorus	Lands visited by Landorus grant such bountiful crops that it has been hailed as “The Guardian of the Fields.”
kyurem	It generates a powerful, freezing energy inside itself, but its body became frozen when the energy leaked out.
keldeo	By blasting water from its hooves, it can glide across water. It excels at using leg moves while battling.
meloetta	Its melodies are sung with a special vocalization method that can control the feelings of those who hear it.
genesect	Over 300 million years ago, it was feared as the strongest of hunters. It has been modified by Team Plasma.
chespin	The quills on its head are usually soft. When it flexes them, the points become so hard and sharp that they can pierce rock.
quilladin	It relies on its sturdy shell to deflect predators’ attacks. It counterattacks with its sharp quills.
chesnaught	Its Tackle is forceful enough to flip a 50-ton tank. It shields its allies from danger with its own body.
fennekin	Eating a twig fills it with energy, and its roomy ears give vent to air hotter than 390 degrees Fahrenheit.
braixen	It has a twig stuck in its tail. With friction from its tail fur, it sets the twig on fire and launches into battle.
delphox	It gazes into the flame at the tip of its branch to achieve a focused state, which allows it to see into the future.
froakie	It secretes flexible bubbles from its chest and back. The bubbles reduce the damage it would otherwise take when attacked.
frogadier	It can throw bubble-covered pebbles with precise control, hitting empty cans up to a hundred feet away.
greninja	It creates throwing stars out of compressed water. When it spins them and throws them at high speed, these stars can split metal in two.
bunnelby	They use their large ears to dig burrows. They will dig the whole night through.
diggersby	With their powerful ears, they can heft boulders of a ton or more with ease. They can be a big help at construction sites.
fletchling	These friendly Pokémon send signals to one another with beautiful chirps and tail-feather movements.
fletchinder	From its beak, it expels embers that set the tall grass on fire. Then it pounces on the bewildered prey that pop out of the grass.
talonflame	In the fever of an exciting battle, it showers embers from the gaps between its feathers and takes to the air.
scatterbug	When under attack from bird Pokémon, it spews a poisonous black powder that causes paralysis on contact.
spewpa	It lives hidden within thicket shadows. When predators attack, it quickly bristles the fur covering its body in an effort to threaten them.
vivillon	Vivillon with many different patterns are found all over the world. These patterns are affected by the climate of their habitat.
litleo	The stronger the opponent it faces, the more heat surges from its mane and the more power flows through its body.
pyroar	The male with the largest mane of fire is the leader of the pride.
flabebe	It draws out and controls the hidden power of flowers. The flower Flabébé holds is most likely part of its body.
floette	It flutters around fields of flowers and cares for flowers that are starting to wilt. It draws out the hidden power of flowers to battle.
florges	It claims exquisite flower gardens as its territory, and it obtains power from basking in the energy emitted by flowering plants.
skiddo	Thought to be one of the first Pokémon to live in harmony with humans, it has a placid disposition.
gogoat	It can tell how its Trainer is feeling by subtle shifts in the grip on its horns. This empathic sense lets them run as if one being.
pancham	It does its best to be taken seriously by its enemies, but its glare is not sufficiently intimidating. Chewing on a leaf is its trademark.
pangoro	Although it possesses a violent temperament, it won’t put up with bullying. It uses the leaf in its mouth to sense the movements of its enemies.
furfrou	Trimming its fluffy fur not only makes it more elegant but also increases the swiftness of its movements.
espurr	The organ that emits its intense psychic power is sheltered by its ears to keep power from leaking out.
meowstic	When in danger, it raises its ears and releases enough psychic power to grind a 10-ton truck into dust.
honedge	Apparently this Pokémon is born when a departed spirit inhabits a sword. It attaches itself to people and drinks their life force.
doublade	When Honedge evolves, it divides into two swords, which cooperate via telepathy to coordinate attacks and slash their enemies to ribbons.
aegislash	Generations of kings were attended by these Pokémon, which used their spectral power to manipulate and control people and Pokémon.
spritzee	It emits a scent that enraptures those who smell it. This fragrance changes depending on what it has eaten.
aromatisse	It devises various scents, pleasant and unpleasant, and emits scents that its enemies dislike in order to gain an edge in battle.
swirlix	To entangle its opponents in battle, it extrudes white threads as sweet and sticky as cotton candy.
slurpuff	It can distinguish the faintest of scents. It puts its sensitive sense of smell to use by helping pastry chefs in their work.
inkay	Opponents who stare at the flashing of the light-emitting spots on its body become dazed and lose their will to fight.
malamar	It wields the most compelling hypnotic powers of any Pokémon, and it forces others to do whatever it wants.
binacle	Two Binacle live together on one rock. When they fight, one of them will move to a different rock.
barbaracle	When they evolve, two Binacle multiply into seven. They fight with the power of seven Binacle.
skrelp	Camouflaged as rotten kelp, they spray liquid poison on prey that approaches unawares and then finish it off.
dragalge	Their poison is strong enough to eat through the hull of a tanker, and they spit it indiscriminately at anything that enters their territory.
clauncher	They knock down flying prey by firing compressed water from their massive claws like shooting a pistol.
clawitzer	Their enormous claws launch cannonballs of water powerful enough to pierce tanker hulls.
helioptile	They make their home in deserts. They can generate their energy from basking in the sun, so eating food is not a requirement.
heliolisk	They flare their frills and generate energy. A single Heliolisk can generate sufficient electricity to power a skyscraper.
tyrunt	This Pokémon was restored from a fossil. If something happens that it doesn’t like, it throws a tantrum and runs wild.
tyrantrum	Thanks to its gargantuan jaws, which could shred thick metal plates as if they were paper, it was invincible in the ancient world it once inhabited.
amaura	This ancient Pokémon was restored from part of its body that had been frozen in ice for over 100 million years.
aurorus	The diamond-shaped crystals on its body expel air as cold as -240 degrees Fahrenheit, surrounding its enemies and encasing them in ice.
sylveon	It sends a soothing aura from its ribbonlike feelers to calm fights.
hawlucha	Although its body is small, its proficient fighting skills enable it to keep up with big bruisers like Machamp and Hariyama.
dedenne	Its whiskers serve as antennas. By sending and receiving electrical waves, it can communicate with others over vast distances.
carbink	Born from the temperatures and pressures deep underground, it fires beams from the stone in its head.
goomy	The weakest Dragon-type Pokémon, it lives in damp, shady places, so its body doesn’t dry out.
sliggoo	It drives away opponents by excreting a sticky liquid that can dissolve anything. Its eyes devolved, so it can’t see anything.
goodra	This very friendly Dragon-type Pokémon will hug its beloved Trainer, leaving that Trainer covered in sticky slime.
klefki	These key collectors threaten any attackers by fiercely jingling their keys at them.
phantump	These Pokémon are created when spirits possess rotten tree stumps. They prefer to live in abandoned forests.
trevenant	It can control trees at will. It will trap people who harm the forest, so they can never leave.
pumpkaboo	The pumpkin body is inhabited by a spirit trapped in this world. As the sun sets, it becomes restless and active.
gourgeist	Singing in eerie voices, they wander town streets on the night of the new moon. Anyone who hears their song is cursed.
bergmite	It blocks opponents’ attacks with the ice that shields its body. It uses cold air to repair any cracks with new ice.
avalugg	Its ice-covered body is as hard as steel. Its cumbersome frame crushes anything that stands in its way.
noibat	They live in pitch-black caves. Their enormous ears can emit ultrasonic waves of 200,000 hertz.
noivern	They fly around on moonless nights and attack careless prey. Nothing can beat them in a battle in the dark.
xerneas	Legends say it can share eternal life. It slept for a thousand years in the form of a tree before its revival.
yveltal	When this legendary Pokémon’s wings and tail feathers spread wide and glow red, it absorbs the life force of living creatures.
zygarde	When the Kalos region’s ecosystem falls into disarray, it appears and reveals its secret power.
diancie	A sudden transformation of Carbink, its pink, glimmering body is said to be the loveliest sight in the whole world.
hoopa	This troublemaker sends anything and everything to faraway places using its loop, which can warp space.
volcanion	It lets out billows of steam and disappears into the dense fog. It’s said to live in mountains where humans do not tread.
rowlet	This wary Pokémon uses photosynthesis to store up energy during the day, while becoming active at night.
dartrix	A bit of a dandy, it spends its free time preening its wings. Its preoccupation with any dirt on its plumage can leave it unable to battle.
decidueye	It fires arrow quills from its wings with such precision, they can pierce a pebble at distances over a hundred yards.
litten	While grooming itself, it builds up fur inside its stomach. It sets the fur alight and spews fiery attacks, which change based on how it coughs.
torracat	At its throat, it bears a bell of fire. The bell rings brightly whenever this Pokémon spits fire.
incineroar	This Pokémon has a violent, selfish disposition. If it’s not in the mood to listen, it will ignore its Trainer’s orders with complete nonchalance.
popplio	This Pokémon snorts body fluids from its nose, blowing balloons to smash into its foes. It’s famous for being a hard worker.
brionne	A skillful dancer, it creates a sequence of water balloons as it dances, and briskly bombards its enemies.
primarina	It controls its water balloons with song. The melody is learned from others of its kind and is passed down from one generation to the next.
pikipek	It can peck at a rate of 16 times a second to drill holes in trees. It uses the holes for food storage and for nesting.
trumbeak	It eats berries and stores their seeds in its beak. When it encounters enemies or prey, it fires off all the seeds in a burst.
toucannon	When it battles, its beak heats up. The temperature can easily exceed 212 degrees Fahrenheit, causing severe burns when it hits.
yungoos	With its sharp fangs, it will bite anything. It did not originally live in Alola but was imported from another region.
gumshoos	When it finds a trace of its prey, it patiently stakes out the location...but it’s always snoozing by nightfall.
grubbin	Its strong jaw enables it to scrape trees and slurp out the sap. It normally lives underground.
charjabug	Its body is capable of storing electricity. On camping trips, people are grateful to have one around.
vikavolt	It zips around, on sharp lookout for an opening. It concentrates electrical energy within its large jaws and uses it to zap its enemies.
crabrawler	While guarding its weak points with its pincers, it looks for an opening and unleashes punches. When it loses, it foams at the mouth and faints.
crabominable	It aimed for the top but got lost and ended up on a snowy mountain. Being forced to endure the cold, this Pokémon evolved and grew fur.
oricorio	It beats its wings together to create fire. As it moves in the steps of its beautiful dance, it bathes opponents in intense flames.
cutiefly	It feeds on the nectar and pollen of flowers. Because it’s able to sense auras, it can identify which flowers are about to bloom.
ribombee	It rolls up pollen into puffs. It makes many different varieties, some used as food and others used in battle.
rockruff	It’s considered to be a good Pokémon for beginners because of its friendliness, but its disposition grows rougher as it grows up.
lycanroc	Its quick movements confuse its enemies. Well equipped with claws and fangs, it also uses the sharp rocks in its mane as weapons.
wishiwashi	When it’s in trouble, its eyes moisten and begin to shine. The shining light attracts its comrades, and they stand together against their enemies.
mareanie	It plunges the poison spike on its head into its prey. When the prey has weakened, Mareanie deals the finishing blow with its 10 tentacles.
toxapex	Toxapex crawls along the ocean floor on its 12 legs. It leaves a trail of Corsola bits scattered in its wake.
mudbray	The mud stuck to Mudbray’s hooves enhances its grip and its powerful running gait.
mudsdale	It spits a mud that provides resistance to both wind and rain, so the walls of old houses were often coated with it.
dewpider	It crawls onto the land in search of food. Its water bubble allows it to breathe and protects its soft head.
araquanid	It delivers headbutts with the water bubble on its head. Small Pokémon get sucked into the bubble, where they drown.
fomantis	During the day, it sleeps and soaks up light. When night falls, it walks around looking for a safer place to sleep.
lurantis	It requires a lot of effort to maintain Lurantis’s vivid coloring, but some collectors enjoy this work and treat it as their hobby.
morelull	It scatters spores that flicker and glow. Anyone seeing these lights falls into a deep slumber.
shiinotic	Forests where Shiinotic live are treacherous to enter at night. People confused by its strange lights can never find their way home again.
salandit	It burns its bodily fluids to create a poisonous gas. When its enemies become disoriented from inhaling the gas, it attacks them.
salazzle	For some reason, only females have been found. It creates a reverse harem of male Salandit that it lives with.
stufful	Despite its adorable appearance, when it gets angry and flails about, its arms and legs could knock a pro wrestler sprawling.
bewear	This immensely dangerous Pokémon possesses overwhelming physical strength. Its habitat is generally off-limits.
bounsweet	A delectable aroma pours from its body. They are often swallowed whole by Toucannon lured by that wafting deliciousness.
steenee	The sepals on its head developed to protect its body. These are quite hard, so even if pecked by bird Pokémon, this Pokémon is totally fine.
tsareena	Its long, striking legs aren’t just for show but to be used to kick with skill. In victory, it shows off by kicking the defeated, laughing boisterously.
comfey	It attaches flowers to its highly nutritious vine. This revitalizes the flowers, and they give off an aromatic scent.
oranguru	Known for its extreme intelligence, this Pokémon will look down on inexperienced Trainers, so it’s best suited to veteran Trainers.
passimian	They form groups of roughly 20 individuals. Their mutual bond is remarkable—they will never let down a comrade.
wimpod	This Pokémon is a coward. As it desperately dashes off, the flailing of its many legs leaves a sparkling clean path in its wake.
golisopod	With a flashing slash of its giant sharp claws, it cleaves seawater—or even air—right in two.
sandygast	Born from a sand mound playfully built by a child, this Pokémon embodies the grudges of the departed.
palossand	Possessed people controlled by this Pokémon transformed its sand mound into a castle. As it evolved, its power to curse grew ever stronger.
pyukumuku	It’s covered in a slime that keeps its skin moist, allowing it to stay on land for days without drying up.
type-null	The heavy control mask it wears suppresses its intrinsic capabilities. This Pokémon has some hidden special power.
silvally	Its trust in its partner is what awakens it. This Pokémon is capable of changing its type, a flexibility that is well displayed in battle.
minior	Originally making its home in the ozone layer, it hurtles to the ground when the shell enclosing its body grows too heavy.
komala	It is born asleep, and it dies asleep. All its movements are apparently no more than the results of it tossing and turning in its dreams.
turtonator	The shell on its back is chemically unstable and explodes violently if struck. The hole in its stomach is its weak point.
togedemaru	The spiny fur on its back is normally at rest. When this Pokémon becomes agitated, its fur stands on end and stabs into its attackers.
mimikyu	Its actual appearance is unknown. A scholar who saw what was under its rag was overwhelmed by terror and died from the shock.
bruxish	When it unleashes its psychic power from the protuberance on its head, the grating sound of grinding teeth echoes through the area.
drampa	It has a compassionate personality, but if it is angered, it completely destroys its surroundings with its intense breath.
dhelmise	Swinging its massive anchor, it can KO Wailord in a single blow. What appears to be green seaweed is actually its body.
jangmo-o	It expresses its feelings by smacking its scales. Metallic sounds echo through the tall mountains where Jangmo-o lives.
hakamo-o	It leaps at its prey with a courageous shout. Its scaly punches tear its opponents to shreds.
kommo-o	When it spots enemies, it threatens them by jingling the scales on its tail. Weak opponents will crack and flee in panic.
tapu-koko	This guardian deity of Melemele is brimming with curiosity. It summons thunderclouds and stores their lightning inside its body.
tapu-lele	This guardian deity of Akala is guilelessly cruel. The fragrant aroma of flowers is the source of its energy.
tapu-bulu	It pulls large trees up by the roots and swings them around. It causes vegetation to grow, and then it absorbs energy from the growth.
tapu-fini	The dense fog it creates brings the downfall and destruction of its confused enemies. Ocean currents are the source of its energy.
cosmog	Its body is gaseous and frail. It slowly grows as it collects dust from the atmosphere.
cosmoem	Motionless as if dead, its body is faintly warm to the touch. In the distant past, it was called the cocoon of the stars.
solgaleo	It is said to live in another world. The intense light it radiates from the surface of its body can make the darkest of nights light up like midday.
lunala	It is said to be a female evolution of Cosmog. When its third eye activates, away it flies to another world.
nihilego	One of several mysterious Ultra Beasts. People on the street report observing those infested by it suddenly becoming violent.
buzzwole	This Ultra Beast appeared from another world. It shows off its body, but whether that display is a boast or a threat remains unclear.
pheromosa	One of the dangerous Ultra Beasts, it has been spotted running across the land at terrific speeds.
xurkitree	One of the mysterious life-forms known as Ultra Beasts. Astonishing electric shocks emanate from its entire body, according to witnesses.
celesteela	It appeared from the Ultra Wormhole. Witnesses observed it flying across the sky at high speed.
kartana	This Ultra Beast came from the Ultra Wormhole. It seems not to attack enemies on its own, but its sharp body is a dangerous weapon in itself.
guzzlord	It has gobbled mountains and swallowed whole buildings, according to reports. It’s one of the Ultra Beasts.
necrozma	Reminiscent of the Ultra Beasts, this life-form, apparently asleep underground, is thought to have come from another world in ancient times.
magearna	This artificial Pokémon, constructed more than 500 years ago, can understand human speech but cannot itself speak.
marshadow	Able to conceal itself in shadows, it never appears before humans, so its very existence was the stuff of myth.
poipole	This Ultra Beast is well enough liked to be chosen as a first partner in its own world.
naganadel	It stores hundreds of liters of poisonous liquid inside its body. It is one of the organisms known as UBs.
stakataka	It appeared from an Ultra Wormhole. Each one appears to be made up of many life-forms stacked one on top of each other.
blacephalon	It slithers toward people. Then, without warning, it triggers the explosion of its own head. It’s apparently one kind of Ultra Beast.
zeraora	It electrifies its claws and tears its opponents apart with them. Even if they dodge its attack, they’ll be electrocuted by the flying sparks.
meltan	It melts particles of iron and other metals found in the subsoil, so it can absorb them into its body of molten steel.
melmetal	Revered long ago for its capacity to create iron from nothing, for some reason it has come back to life after 3,000 years.
grookey	When it uses its special stick to strike up a beat, the sound waves produced carry revitalizing energy to the plants and flowers in the area.
thwackey	The faster a Thwackey can beat out a rhythm with its two sticks, the more respect it wins from its peers.
rillaboom	By drumming, it taps into the power of its special tree stump. The roots of the stump follow its direction in battle.
scorbunny	A warm-up of running around gets fire energy coursing through this Pokémon’s body. Once that happens, it’s ready to fight at full power.
raboot	Its thick and fluffy fur protects it from the cold and enables it to use hotter fire moves.
cinderace	It juggles a pebble with its feet, turning it into a burning soccer ball. Its shots strike opponents hard and leave them scorched.
sobble	When scared, this Pokémon cries. Its tears pack the chemical punch of 100 onions, and attackers won’t be able to resist weeping.
drizzile	A clever combatant, this Pokémon battles using water balloons created with moisture secreted from its palms.
inteleon	It has many hidden capabilities, such as fingertips that can shoot water and a membrane on its back that it can use to glide through the air.
skwovet	Found throughout the Galar region, this Pokémon becomes uneasy if its cheeks are ever completely empty of berries.
greedent	It stashes berries in its tail—so many berries that they fall out constantly. But this Pokémon is a bit slow-witted, so it doesn’t notice the loss.
rookidee	It will bravely challenge any opponent, no matter how powerful. This Pokémon benefits from every battle—even a defeat increases its strength a bit.
corvisquire	Smart enough to use tools in battle, these Pokémon have been seen picking up rocks and flinging them or using ropes to wrap up enemies.
corviknight	This Pokémon reigns supreme in the skies of the Galar region. The black luster of its steel body could drive terror into the heart of any foe.
blipbug	A constant collector of information, this Pokémon is very smart. Very strong is what it isn’t.
dottler	It barely moves, but it’s still alive. Hiding in its shell without food or water seems to have awakened its psychic powers.
orbeetle	It’s famous for its high level of intelligence, and the large size of its brain is proof that it also possesses immense psychic power.
nickit	Aided by the soft pads on its feet, it silently raids the food stores of other Pokémon. It survives off its ill-gotten gains.
thievul	It secretly marks potential targets with a scent. By following the scent, it stalks its targets and steals from them when they least expect it.
gossifleur	It anchors itself in the ground with its single leg, then basks in the sun. After absorbing enough sunlight, its petals spread as it blooms brilliantly.
eldegoss	The seeds attached to its cotton fluff are full of nutrients. It spreads them on the wind so that plants and other Pokémon can benefit from them.
wooloo	Its curly fleece is such an effective cushion that this Pokémon could fall off a cliff and stand right back up at the bottom, unharmed.
dubwool	Weave a carpet from its springy wool, and you end up with something closer to a trampoline. You’ll start to bounce the moment you set foot on it.
chewtle	Apparently the itch of its teething impels it to snap its jaws at anything in front of it.
drednaw	With jaws that can shear through steel rods, this highly aggressive Pokémon chomps down on its unfortunate prey.
yamper	This Pokémon is very popular as a herding dog in the Galar region. As it runs, it generates electricity from the base of its tail.
boltund	This Pokémon generates electricity and channels it into its legs to keep them going strong. Boltund can run nonstop for three full days.
rolycoly	Most of its body has the same composition as coal. Fittingly, this Pokémon was first discovered in coal mines about 400 years ago.
carkol	It forms coal inside its body. Coal dropped by this Pokémon once helped fuel the lives of people in the Galar region.
coalossal	It’s usually peaceful, but the vandalism of mines enrages it. Offenders will be incinerated with flames that reach 2,700 degrees Fahrenheit.
applin	It spends its entire life inside an apple. It hides from its natural enemies, bird Pokémon, by pretending it’s just an apple and nothing more.
flapple	It ate a sour apple, and that induced its evolution. In its cheeks, it stores an acid capable of causing chemical burns.
appletun	Eating a sweet apple caused its evolution. A nectarous scent wafts from its body, luring in the bug Pokémon it preys on.
silicobra	As it digs, it swallows sand and stores it in its neck pouch. The pouch can hold more than 17 pounds of sand.
sandaconda	When it contracts its body, over 220 pounds of sand sprays from its nose. If it ever runs out of sand, it becomes disheartened.
cramorant	It’s so strong that it can knock out some opponents in a single hit, but it also may forget what it’s battling midfight.
arrokuda	If it sees any movement around it, this Pokémon charges for it straightaway, leading with its sharply pointed jaw. It’s very proud of that jaw.
barraskewda	This Pokémon has a jaw that’s as sharp as a spear and as strong as steel. Apparently Barraskewda’s flesh is surprisingly tasty, too.
toxel	It stores poison in an internal poison sac and secretes that poison through its skin. If you touch this Pokémon, a tingling sensation follows.
toxtricity	When this Pokémon sounds as if it’s strumming a guitar, it’s actually clawing at the protrusions on its chest to generate electricity.
sizzlipede	It stores flammable gas in its body and uses it to generate heat. The yellow sections on its belly get particularly hot.
centiskorch	When it heats up, its body temperature reaches about 1,500 degrees Fahrenheit. It lashes its body like a whip and launches itself at enemies.
clobbopus	It’s very curious, but its means of investigating things is to try to punch them with its tentacles. The search for food is what brings it onto land.
grapploct	A body made up of nothing but muscle makes the grappling moves this Pokémon performs with its tentacles tremendously powerful.
sinistea	This Pokémon is said to have been born when a lonely spirit possessed a cold, leftover cup of tea.
polteageist	This species lives in antique teapots. Most pots are forgeries, but on rare occasions, an authentic work is found.
hatenna	Via the protrusion on its head, it senses other creatures’ emotions. If you don’t have a calm disposition, it will never warm up to you.
hattrem	No matter who you are, if you bring strong emotions near this Pokémon, it will silence you violently.
hatterene	It emits psychic power strong enough to cause headaches as a deterrent to the approach of others.
impidimp	Through its nose, it sucks in the emanations produced by people and Pokémon when they feel annoyed. It thrives off this negative energy.
morgrem	When it gets down on all fours as if to beg for forgiveness, it’s trying to lure opponents in so that it can stab them with its spear-like hair.
grimmsnarl	With the hair wrapped around its body helping to enhance its muscles, this Pokémon can overwhelm even Machamp.
obstagoon	Its voice is staggering in volume. Obstagoon has a tendency to take on a threatening posture and shout—this move is known as Obstruct.
perrserker	What appears to be an iron helmet is actually hardened hair. This Pokémon lives for the thrill of battle.
cursola	Its shell is overflowing with its heightened otherworldly energy. The ectoplasm serves as protection for this Pokémon’s core spirit.
sirfetchd	Only Farfetch’d that have survived many battles can attain this evolution. When this Pokémon’s leek withers, it will retire from combat.
mr-rime	It’s highly skilled at tap-dancing. It waves its cane of ice in time with its graceful movements.
runerigus	A powerful curse was woven into an ancient painting. After absorbing the spirit of a Yamask, the painting began to move.
milcery	This Pokémon was born from sweet-smelling particles in the air. Its body is made of cream.
alcremie	When it trusts a Trainer, it will treat them to berries it’s decorated with cream.
falinks	Five of them are troopers, and one is the brass. The brass’s orders are absolute.
pincurchin	It feeds on seaweed, using its teeth to scrape it off rocks. Electric current flows from the tips of its spines.
snom	It spits out thread imbued with a frigid sort of energy and uses it to tie its body to branches, disguising itself as an icicle while it sleeps.
frosmoth	Icy scales fall from its wings like snow as it flies over fields and mountains. The temperature of its wings is less than −290 degrees Fahrenheit.
stonjourner	It stands in grasslands, watching the sun’s descent from zenith to horizon. This Pokémon has a talent for delivering dynamic kicks.
eiscue	It drifted in on the flow of ocean waters from a frigid place. It keeps its head iced constantly to make sure it stays nice and cold.
indeedee	It uses the horns on its head to sense the emotions of others. Males will act as valets for those they serve, looking after their every need.
morpeko	As it eats the seeds stored up in its pocket-like pouches, this Pokémon is not just satisfying its constant hunger. It’s also generating electricity.
cufant	It digs up the ground with its trunk. It’s also very strong, being able to carry loads of over five tons without any problem at all.
copperajah	They came over from another region long ago and worked together with humans. Their green skin is resistant to water.
dracozolt	In ancient times, it was unbeatable thanks to its powerful lower body, but it went extinct anyway after it depleted all its plant-based food sources.
arctozolt	The shaking of its freezing upper half is what generates its electricity. It has a hard time walking around.
dracovish	Powerful legs and jaws made it the apex predator of its time. Its own overhunting of its prey was what drove it to extinction.
arctovish	Though it’s able to capture prey by freezing its surroundings, it has trouble eating the prey afterward because its mouth is on top of its head.
duraludon	Its body resembles polished metal, and it’s both lightweight and strong. The only drawback is that it rusts easily.
dreepy	After being reborn as a ghost Pokémon, Dreepy wanders the areas it used to inhabit back when it was alive in prehistoric seas.
drakloak	It’s capable of flying faster than 120 mph. It battles alongside Dreepy and dotes on them until they successfully evolve.
dragapult	When it isn’t battling, it keeps Dreepy in the holes on its horns. Once a fight starts, it launches the Dreepy like supersonic missiles.
zacian	Known as a legendary hero, this Pokémon absorbs metal particles, transforming them into a weapon it uses to battle.
zamazenta	In times past, it worked together with a king of the people to save the Galar region. It absorbs metal that it then uses in battle.
eternatus	The core on its chest absorbs energy emanating from the lands of the Galar region. This energy is what allows Eternatus to stay active.
kubfu	Kubfu trains hard to perfect its moves. The moves it masters will determine which form it takes when it evolves.
urshifu	This form of Urshifu is a strong believer in the one-hit KO. Its strategy is to leap in close to foes and land a devastating blow with a hardened fist.
zarude	Within dense forests, this Pokémon lives in a pack with others of its kind. It’s incredibly aggressive, and the other Pokémon of the forest fear it.
regieleki	This Pokémon is a cluster of electrical energy. It’s said that removing the rings on Regieleki’s body will unleash the Pokémon’s latent power.
regidrago	An academic theory proposes that Regidrago’s arms were once the head of an ancient dragon Pokémon. The theory remains unproven.
glastrier	Glastrier emits intense cold from its hooves. It’s also a belligerent Pokémon—anything it wants, it takes by force.
spectrier	It probes its surroundings with all its senses save one—it doesn’t use its sense of sight. Spectrier’s kicks are said to separate soul from body.
calyrex	Calyrex is a merciful Pokémon, capable of providing healing and blessings. It reigned over the Galar region in times of yore.
wyrdeer	The black orbs shine with an uncanny light when the Pokémon is erecting invisible barriers. The fur shed from its beard retains heat well and is a highly useful material for winter clothing.
kleavor	A violent creature that fells towering trees with its crude axes and shields itself with hard stone. If one should chance upon this Pokémon in the wilds, one's only recourse is to flee.
ursaluna	I believe it was Hisui's swampy terrain that gave Ursaluna its burly physique and newfound capacity to manipulate peat at will.
basculegion	Clads itself in the souls of comrades that perished before fulfilling their goals of journeying upstream. No other species throughout all Hisui's rivers is Basculegion's equal.
sneasler	Because of Sneasler's virulent poison and daunting physical prowess, no other species could hope to best it on the frozen highlands. Preferring solitude, this species does not form packs.
overqwil	Its lancelike spikes and savage temperament have earned it the nickname ”sea fiend.” It slurps up poison to nourish itself.
enamorus	When it flies to this land from across the sea, the bitter winter comes to an end. According to legend, this Pokémon's love gives rise to the budding of fresh life across Hisui.
sprigatito	Its fluffy fur is similar in composition to plants. This Pokémon frequently washes its face to keep it from drying out.
floragato	Floragato deftly wields the vine hidden beneath its long fur, slamming the hard flower bud against its opponents.
meowscarada	This Pokémon uses the reflective fur lining its cape to camouflage the stem of its flower, creating the illusion that the flower is floating.
fuecoco	It lies on warm rocks and uses the heat absorbed by its square-shaped scales to create fire energy.
crocalor	The combination of Crocalor’s fire energy and overflowing vitality has caused an egg-shaped fireball to appear on the Pokémon’s head.
skeledirge	The fiery bird changes shape when Skeledirge sings. Rumor has it that the bird was born when the fireball on Skeledirge’s head gained a soul.
quaxly	This Pokémon migrated to Paldea from distant lands long ago. The gel secreted by its feathers repels water and grime."
quaxwell	These Pokémon constantly run through shallow waters to train their legs, then compete with each other to see which of them kicks most gracefully.
quaquaval	A single kick from a Quaquaval can send a truck rolling. This Pokémon uses its powerful legs to perform striking dances from far-off lands.
lechonk	It searches for food all day. It possesses a keen sense of smell but doesn’t use it for anything other than foraging.
oinkologne	Oinkologne is proud of its fine, glossy skin. It emits a concentrated scent from the tip of its tail.
tarountula	The ball of threads wrapped around its body is elastic enough to deflect the scythes of Scyther, this Pokémon’s natural enemy.
spidops	It clings to branches and ceilings using its threads and moves without a sound. It takes out its prey before the prey even notices it.
nymble	It has its third set of legs folded up. When it’s in a tough spot, this Pokémon jumps over 30 feet using the strength of its legs.
lokix	When it decides to fight all out, it stands on its previously folded legs to enter Showdown Mode. It neutralizes its enemies in short order.
pawmi	It has underdeveloped electric sacs on its cheeks. These sacs can produce electricity only if Pawmi rubs them furiously with the pads on its forepaws.
pawmo	When its group is attacked, Pawmo is the first to leap into battle, defeating enemies with a fighting technique that utilizes electric shocks.
pawmot	This Pokémon normally is slow to react, but once it enters battle, it will strike down its enemies with lightning-fast movements.
tandemaus	Exhibiting great teamwork, they use their incisors to cut pieces out of any material that might be useful for a nest, then make off with them.
maushold	The two little ones just appeared one day. The group might be a family of related Pokémon, but nobody knows for sure.
fidough	This Pokémon is smooth and moist to the touch. Yeast in Fidough’s breath induces fermentation in the Pokémon’s vicinity.
dachsbun	The pleasant aroma that emanates from this Pokémon’s body helps wheat grow, so Dachsbun has been treasured by farming villages.
smoliv	It protects itself from enemies by emitting oil from the fruit on its head. This oil is bitter and astringent enough to make someone flinch.
dolliv	Dolliv shares its tasty, fresh-scented oil with others. This species has coexisted with humans since times long gone.
arboliva	This calm Pokémon is very compassionate. It will share its delicious, nutrient-rich oil with weakened Pokémon.
squawkabilly	These Pokémon prefer to live in cities. They form flocks based on the color of their feathers, and they fight over territory.
nacli	It was born in a layer of rock salt deep under the earth. This species was particularly treasured in the old days, as they would share precious salt.
naclstack	This Pokémon dry cures its prey by spraying salt over them. The curing process steals away the water in the prey’s body.
garganacl	Garganacl will rub its fingertips together and sprinkle injured Pokémon with salt. Even severe wounds will promptly heal afterward.
charcadet	Burnt charcoal came to life and became a Pokémon. Possessing a fiery fighting spirit, Charcadet will battle even tough opponents.
armarouge	Armarouge evolved through the use of a set of armor that belonged to a distinguished warrior. This Pokémon is incredibly loyal.
ceruledge	The fiery blades on its arms burn fiercely with the lingering resentment of a sword wielder who fell before accomplishing their goal.
tadbulb	Tadbulb shakes its tail to generate electricity. If it senses danger, it will make its head blink on and off to alert its allies.
bellibolt	When this Pokémon expands and contracts its wobbly body, the belly-button dynamo in its stomach produces a huge amount of electricity.
wattrel	When its wings catch the wind, the bones within produce electricity. This Pokémon dives into the ocean, catching prey by electrocuting them.
kilowattrel	Kilowattrel inflates its throat sac to amplify its electricity. By riding the wind, this Pokémon can fly over 430 miles in a day.
maschiff	It always scowls in an attempt to make opponents take it seriously, but even crying children will burst into laughter when they see Maschiff’s face.
mabosstiff	This Pokémon can store energy in its large dewlap. Mabosstiff unleashes this energy all at once to blow away enemies.
shroodle	Though usually a mellow Pokémon, it will sink its sharp, poison-soaked front teeth into any that anger it, causing paralysis in the object of its ire.
grafaiai	The color of the poisonous saliva depends on what the Pokémon eats. Grafaiai covers its fingers in its saliva and draws patterns on trees in forests.
bramblin	A soul unable to move on to the afterlife was blown around by the wind until it got tangled up with dried grass and became a Pokémon.
brambleghast	It will open the branches of its head to envelop its prey. Once it absorbs all the life energy it needs, it expels the prey and discards it.
toedscool	Toedscool lives in muggy forests. The flaps that fall from its body are chewy and very delicious.
toedscruel	These Pokémon gather into groups and form colonies deep within forests. They absolutely hate it when strangers approach.
klawf	Klawf hangs upside-down from cliffs, waiting for prey. But Klawf can’t remain in this position for long because its blood rushes to its head.
capsakid	The more sunlight this Pokémon bathes in, the more spicy chemicals are produced by its body, and thus the spicier its moves become.
scovillain	The red head converts spicy chemicals into fire energy and blasts the surrounding area with a super spicy stream of flame.
rellor	This Pokémon creates a mud ball by mixing sand and dirt with psychic energy. It treasures its mud ball more than its own life.
rabsca	The body that supports the ball barely moves. Therefore, it is thought that the true body of this Pokémon is actually inside the ball.
flittle	Flittle’s toes levitate about half an inch above the ground because of the psychic power emitted from the frills on the Pokémon’s belly.
espathra	It immobilizes opponents by bathing them in psychic power from its large eyes. Despite its appearance, it has a vicious temperament.
tinkatink	It swings its handmade hammer around to protect itself, but the hammer is often stolen by Pokémon that eat metal.
tinkatuff	This Pokémon will attack groups of Pawniard and Bisharp, gathering metal from them in order to create a large and sturdy hammer.
tinkaton	This intelligent Pokémon has a very daring disposition. It knocks rocks into the sky with its hammer, aiming for flying Corviknight.
wiglett	This Pokémon can pick up the scent of a Veluza just over 65 feet away and will hide itself in the sand.
wugtrio	It has a vicious temperament, contrary to what its appearance may suggest. It wraps its long bodies around prey, then drags the prey into its den.
bombirdier	It gathers things up in an apron made from shed feathers added to the Pokémon’s chest feathers, then drops those things from high places for fun.
finizen	It likes playing with others of its kind using the water ring on its tail. It uses ultrasonic waves to sense the emotions of other living creatures.
palafin	This Pokémon changes its appearance if it hears its allies calling for help. Palafin will never show anybody its moment of transformation.
varoom	It is said that this Pokémon was born when an unknown poison Pokémon entered and inspirited an engine left at a scrap-processing factory.
revavroom	It creates a gas out of poison and minerals from rocks. It then detonates the gas in its cylinders—now numbering eight—to generate energy.
cyclizar	Apparently Cyclizar has been allowing people to ride on its back since ancient times. Depictions of this have been found in 10,000-year-old murals.
orthworm	When attacked, this Pokémon will wield the tendrils on its body like fists and pelt the opponent with a storm of punches.
glimmet	It absorbs nutrients from cave walls. The petals it wears are made of crystallized poison.
glimmora	When this Pokémon detects danger, it will open up its crystalline petals and fire beams from its conical body.
greavard	It is said that a dog Pokémon that died in the wild without ever interacting with a human was reborn as this Pokémon.
houndstone	Houndstone spends most of its time sleeping in graveyards. Among all the dog Pokémon, this one is most loyal to its master.
flamigo	This Pokémon apparently ties the base of its neck into a knot so that energy stored in its belly does not escape from its beak.
cetoddle	This species left the ocean and began living on land a very long time ago. It seems to be closely related to Wailmer.
cetitan	This Pokémon wanders around snowy, icy areas. It protects its body with powerful muscles and a thick layer of fat under its skin.
veluza	When Veluza discards unnecessary flesh, its mind becomes honed and its psychic power increases. The spare flesh has a mild but delicious flavor.
dondozo	This Pokémon is a glutton, but it’s bad at getting food. It teams up with a Tatsugiri to catch prey.
tatsugiri	This is a small dragon Pokémon. It lives inside the mouth of Dondozo to protect itself from enemies on the outside.
annihilape	When its anger rose beyond a critical point, this Pokémon gained power that is unfettered by the limits of its physical body.
clodsire	When attacked, this Pokémon will retaliate by sticking thick spines out from its body. It’s a risky move that puts everything on the line.
farigiraf	Now that the brain waves from the head and tail are synced up, the psychic power of this Pokémon is 10 times stronger than Girafarig’s.
dudunsparce	This Pokémon uses its hard tail to make its nest by boring holes into bedrock deep underground. The nest can reach lengths of over six miles.
kingambit	Only a Bisharp that stands above all others in its vast army can evolve into Kingambit.
great-tusk	Sightings of this Pokémon have occurred in recent years. The name Great Tusk was taken from a creature listed in a certain book.
scream-tail	There has been only one reported sighting of this Pokémon. It resembles a mysterious creature depicted in an old expedition journal.
brute-bonnet	It is possible that the creature listed as Brute Bonnet in a certain book could actually be this Pokémon.
flutter-mane	This Pokémon has characteristics similar to those of Flutter Mane, a creature mentioned in a certain book.
slither-wing	This mysterious Pokémon has some similarities to a creature that an old book introduced as Slither Wing.
sandy-shocks	No records exist of this Pokémon being caught. Data is lacking, but the Pokémon’s traits match up with a creature shown in an expedition journal.
iron-treads	This Pokémon closely resembles a scientific weapon that a paranormal magazine claimed was sent to this planet by aliens.
iron-bundle	Its shape is similar to a robot featured in a paranormal magazine article. The robot was said to have been created by an ancient civilization.
iron-hands	It is very similar to a cyborg covered exclusively by a paranormal magazine. The cyborg was said to be the modified form of a certain athlete.
iron-jugulis	It resembles a certain Pokémon introduced in a paranormal magazine, described as the offspring of a Hydreigon that fell in love with a robot.
iron-moth	This Pokémon resembles an unknown object described in a paranormal magazine as a UFO sent to observe humanity.
iron-thorns	It has some similarities to a Pokémon introduced in a dubious magazine as a Tyranitar from one billion years into the future.
frigibax	Frigibax absorbs heat through its dorsal fin and converts the heat into ice energy. The higher the temperature, the more energy Frigibax stores.
arctibax	Arctibax freezes the air around it, protecting its face with an ice mask and turning its dorsal fin into a blade of ice.
baxcalibur	This Pokémon blasts cryogenic air out from its mouth. This air can instantly freeze even liquid-hot lava.
gimmighoul	This Pokémon was born inside a treasure chest about 1,500 years ago. It sucks the life-force out of scoundrels who try to steal the treasure.
gholdengo	Its body seems to be made up of 1,000 coins. This Pokémon gets along well with others and is quick to make friends with anybody.
wo-chien	The grudge of a person punished for writing the king’s evil deeds upon wooden tablets has clad itself in dead leaves to become a Pokémon.
chien-pao	This Pokémon can control 100 tons of fallen snow. It plays around innocently by leaping in and out of avalanches it has caused.
ting-lu	The fear poured into an ancient ritual vessel has clad itself in rocks and dirt to become a Pokémon.
chi-yu	It controls flames burning at over 5,400 degrees Fahrenheit. It casually swims through the sea of lava it creates by melting rock and sand.
roaring-moon	It is possible that this is the creature listed as Roaring Moon in an expedition journal that still holds many mysteries.
iron-valiant	It has some similarities to a mad scientist’s invention covered in a paranormal magazine.
koraidon	This seems to be the Winged King mentioned in an old expedition journal. It was said to have split the land with its bare fists.
miraidon	Much remains unknown about this creature. It resembles Cyclizar, but it is far more ruthless and powerful.
walking-wake	This ferocious creature is shrouded in mystery. It's named after an aquatic monster mentioned in an old expedition journal.
iron-leaves	Many of its physical characteristics match those of a Virizion from the future that was covered in a paranormal magazine.
dipplin	Dipplin is two creatures in one Pokémon. Its evolution was triggered by a special apple grown only in one place.
poltchageist	Supposedly, the regrets of a tea ceremony master who died before perfecting his craft lingered in some matcha and became a Pokémon.
sinistcha	It pretends to be tea, trying to fool people into drinking it so it can drain their life-force. Its ruse is generally unsuccessful.
okidogi	After all its muscles were stimulated by the toxic chain around its neck, Okidogi transformed and gained a powerful physique.
munkidori	The chain is made from toxins that enhance capabilities. It stimulated Munkidori's brain and caused the Pokémon's psychic powers to bloom.
fezandipiti	Fezandipiti owes its beautiful looks and lovely voice to the toxic stimulants emanating from the chain wrapped around its body.
ogerpon	This Pokémon's type changes based on which mask it's wearing. It confounds its enemies with nimble movements and kicks.
archaludon	It gathers static electricity from its surroundings. The beams it launches when down on all fours are tremendously powerful.
hydrapple	Seven syrpents live inside an apple made of syrup. The syrpent in the center is the commander.
gouging-fire	There are scant few reports of this creature being sighted. One short video shows it rampaging and spouting pillars of flame.
raging-bolt	It's said to incinerate everything around it with lightning launched from its fur. Very little is known about this creature.
iron-boulder	It resembles a Pokémon described in a dubious magazine as a Terrakion that had been modified by an evil organization.
iron-crown	It resembles a mysterious object introduced in a paranormal magazine as a cutting-edge weapon shaped like a Cobalion.
terapagos	Terapagos protects itself using its power to transform energy into hard crystals. This Pokémon is the source of the Terastal phenomenon.
pecharunt	It feeds others toxic mochi that draw out desires and capabilities. Those who eat the mochi fall under Pecharunt’s control, chained to its will.
